
=== PAGE 1 ===
GTX: A Write-Optimized Latch-free Graph Data System with
Transactional Support - Extended Version
Libin Zhou, Lu Xing, Yeasir Rayhan, Walid. G. Aref
Purdue University
West Lafayette, Indiana, USA
{zhou822,xingl,yrayhan,aref}@purdue.edu
Abstract
This paper introduces GTX, a standalone main-memory write-
optimized graph data system that specializes in structural and graph
property updates while enabling concurrent reads and graph an-
alytics through ACID transactions. Recent graph systems target
concurrent read and write support while guaranteeing transaction
semantics. However, their performance suffers from updates with
real-world temporal locality over the same vertices and edges due
to vertex-centric lock contentions. GTX has an adaptive delta-chain
locking protocol on top of a carefully designed latch-free graph
storage. It eliminates vertex-level locking contention, and adapts
to real-life workloads while maintaining sequential access to the
graph’s adjacency lists storage. GTX’s transactions further support
cache-friendly block-level concurrency control, and cooperative
group commit and garbage collection. This combination of features
ensures high update throughput and provides low latency graph
analytics. Based on experimental evaluation, in addition to not sac-
rificing the performance of read-heavy analytical workloads, and
having competitive performance similar to state-of-the-art systems,
GTX has high read-write transaction throughput. For write-heavy
transactional workloads, GTX achieves up to 11× better transaction
throughput than the best-performing state-of-the-art system.
CCS Concepts
• Information systems →Graph-based database models; Data
management systems; Data locking; Main memory engines.
Keywords
Dynamic graph, transaction, latch-free concurrency control
1
Introduction
Managing and querying dynamic graphs have become increas-
ingly important in many real-world applications, e.g., recommen-
dation systems, fraud detection, threat detection, geo-spatial navi-
gation, e-commerce, knowledge graph applications, and risk man-
agement [10, 17, 18, 55, 62, 72, 87, 90, 103]. Graphs continuously
change [3, 5, 21, 23, 27, 30, 53, 72, 85, 91] with millions of edge up-
dates per second [27], e.g., 500 million tweets generated in Twitter
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
GTX Technical Report, arxiv
© 2025 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 978-x-xxxx-xxxx-x/YYYY/MM
https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn
per day [21]. Applications require transactions to update multi-
ple vertices and edges [72], e.g., in ByteDance services [8], when
a user creates an article, a transaction atomically inserts 3 edges:
(user, article), (user, tag), (article, tag). Without transactions, updates
can corrupt the data [35], e.g., violating the reciprocal consistency
that requires atomically updating two edges between a pair of ver-
tices [35, 102]. At the same time, dynamic graphs need to support
graph analytics [36, 39, 52, 72, 111]. ByteDance [8] detects fraud,
and manages risk via subgraph pattern-matching that may traverse
multiple hops while the graph is being updated concurrently [72].
Without transactional atomicity, consistency, and isolation, graph
analytics algorithms, originally designed for static graphs, cannot
be run [52], and may yield incorrect results [35, 39] and security
vulnerabilities [35, 101], e.g., an access control system needs to
update access permissions of roles and entities atomically [35, 101].
Without transactional guarantees, users may obtain incorrect per-
missions, and malicious users can exploit race conditions to trigger
vulnerabilities. Graph systems, e.g., [44, 64, 78], that do not sup-
port transactions cannot run graph analytics concurrently with
updates [52]. Recent graph data systems, e.g., [39, 52, 111], support
mixed transactions and analytics workloads.
Experiments [52] show that the performance of state-of-the-art
transactional graph systems [39, 52, 111] suffer significantly when
workloads follow real-world update patterns. Many real-world sce-
narios exhibit power-law graphs with vertex degrees following
power-law distribution [33, 34, 46, 96, 111], and super vertices (hub
vertices) [52, 72]) having large degree. Also, real-world graph work-
loads have hotspots, and their edge updates have temporal local-
ity [52, 65]. These update patterns cause not only updates to the
same vertex’s adjacency list to be temporally close to each other,
but also create congestion of large amounts of concurrent updates
at the same vertices (i.e., hub vertices becoming hotspots [72]).
Vertex-centric locking and the lack of lock-free synchronization
cause significant degradation in transaction throughput [52].
Latch-free indexes, e.g., [24, 25, 66, 70, 71, 74, 100, 110], eliminate
locks and blocking, and hence offer higher concurrency. They rely
on atomic hardware primitives, e.g., compare_and_swap (CAS) and
fetch_add to serialize updates, but by themselves, do not support
transactions [70]. The Bw-Tree [70, 100] does not prevent write-
write conflicts or provide transaction atomicity and consistency. It
requires a separate transaction protocol [42] to handle transactions.
This paper studies realizing a high-throughput transactional
graph data system, GTX1, using a latch-free graph store and mul-
tiversion concurrency control 𝑀𝑉𝐶𝐶[107]. GTX is a latch-free
write-optimized main-memory transactional graph system support-
ing highly concurrent read-write transactions and graph analytics.
1The source code can be found at: https://github.com/Jiboxiake/GTX-SIGMOD2025
arXiv:2405.01418v2  [cs.DB]  24 Feb 2025

=== PAGE 2 ===
GTX Technical Report, 2025, arxiv
Libin Zhou, Lu Xing, Yeasir Rayhan, Walid. G. Aref
GTX has a cache-friendly latch-free 𝑀𝑉𝐶𝐶dynamic graph stor-
age managed and accessed completely by non-blocking atomic
primitives. It combines pointer-based and sequential delta-chain
storage for efficient edge lookup and adjacency list scans. It uses
vector-based delta-chains indexes to locate target edges efficiently
while preserving cache-effective sequential adjacency lists. GTX’s
storage is optimized for power-law edge distributions and hub ver-
tices that are prominent in real-world graphs [52, 111]. GTX has
an efficient transaction protocol for the underlying latch-free data
structure and dynamic graph workload. GTX eliminates vertex- and
edge-centric locks, and has an adaptive delta-chain locking protocol.
GTX adapts to the temporal locality and hotspots of edge updates
by increasing concurrency for “hot" vertices with higher memory
cost, and reducing concurrency for the “cold" vertices. To exploit
the high concurrency provided by latch-free 𝑀𝑉𝐶𝐶and adaptive
concurrency control, GTX has a low-latency hybrid group commit
protocol and cooperative 𝑀𝑉𝐶𝐶garbage collection. GTX exhibits
a cooperative worker thread design. Except for a single commit
manager thread, GTX has no service threads. GTX worker threads
install committed transactions’ updates, and collect garbage while
executing each thread’s own transactions.
Experiments demonstrate that GTX achieves up to 2× and 11×
higher transaction throughput than the best competitor in random
order power-law graph edge insertions and in real-world timestamp-
ordered power-law graph edge insertions, respectively. For con-
current transaction and graph analytics workloads, GTX has up to
5.3× higher throughput in edge update transactions for write-heavy
workloads, and 3.7× higher throughput for read-write balanced
workloads over the best competitor systems. The trade-off is that
GTX takes between 0.95× to 2× longer time than the best perform-
ing system to execute most of the concurrent graph analytics, but
still performs reasonably well for the majority of the workloads.
The contributions of this paper are as follows. We introduce GTX,
a write-optimized transactional graph system with high transac-
tion throughput. GTX has a latch-free graph storage that leverages
existing techniques of latch-free indexes, and is optimized for adja-
cency list storage of dynamic graphs. GTX has a delta chains-based
adaptive 𝑀𝑉𝐶𝐶, combining pointer-based delta-chains storage and
sequential storage to provide both efficient single edge lookup and
adjacency list scans. GTX has a high-throughput transaction pro-
tocol equipped with a hybrid commit protocol, and cooperative
garbage collection suited for latch-free multi-versioning storage.
GTX concurrency control dynamically adapts to real-world up-
date patterns, temporal localities, and hotspots, and eliminates the
need for vertex- or edge-centric locking commonly used in graph
systems. Our experiments demonstrate that GTX achieves up to
11x higher read-write transaction throughput while maintaining
competitive graph analytics latency concurrently.
The rest of this paper proceeds as follows. Section 2 discusses
related work on dynamic graph systems. Section 3 overviews GTX.
Sections 4 - 9 present GTX’s graph store, transaction operations
and transaction management. Section 10 presents an extensive
experimental study. Finally, Section 11 concludes the paper.
2
Related Work
Data systems have been developed for graph data management and
analytics [1, 2, 6, 11, 15, 18, 27–29, 31, 32, 36, 40, 41, 43, 44, 47–51, 54,
56, 58, 60, 61, 64, 69, 72, 73, 77, 78, 80, 81, 84, 86, 89, 93–95, 97, 104–
106]. Transactional graph systems [39, 52, 111] execute read-write
transactions and analytics on dynamic graphs concurrently.
LiveGraph [111], a main-memory graph data system, supports
graph analytics and read-write transactions. LiveGraph adopts an
adjacency list-based edge storage model, and uses a vertex array
index storing pointers to vertex versions and edge blocks. LiveG-
raph supports MVCC. Read-write transactions acquire exclusive
locks on vertices, and create a new version to update a vertex,
and append a new update log to update an edge. Readers do not
need locks, and directly scan the memory block utilizing trans-
action timestamps to read the visible versions. LiveGraph stores
edge versions of the same source vertex consecutively in the same
memory block and enables purely sequential adjacency list scans.
LiveGraph’s sequential storage of adjacency lists is cache-friendly,
reduces random memory access and pointer chasing, and facili-
tates prefetching [39, 52, 111]. It enables efficient graph analytics.
LiveGraph’s edge block lacks indexes, and scans the whole block
for edge lookups and updates (that need to invalidate old edge
versions). Also, LiveGraph’s vertex-centric locks block concurrent
transactions from writing to the same vertex’s adjacency list even
if they may be updating different edges. Despite competitive graph
analytics performance, LiveGraph suffers from low transaction
throughput as shown in our experiments in Section 10. GTX uses a
similar adjacency list-based MVCC storage model indexed by vertex
ID, but overcomes these challenges through 1) A latch-free graph
storage (Section 4), 2) A delta-chains-based edge multi-versioning
and index within edge-deltas blocks (Sections 4.2, 5.2-5.4), 3) A
new high-throughput read-write ACID transaction protocol with
delta-chain-based concurrency control (Section 6), 4) A cooperative
safe-timestamp-based garbage collection technique during normal
transaction operations (Section 9).
Teseo [39] stores graph vertices and their adjacency lists in dy-
namic large sparse arrays [38] inside leaf nodes of a “fat" B+-tree
to provide both efficient updates and adjacency list reads. Teseo
has a clustered sparse index on keys in each sparse array segment
to support fast point lookup of vertices and edges, and secondary
indexes on vertex locations in the segments to initiate adjacency list
scans. Teseo has a hybrid latch per sparse array segment that com-
bines conventional and optimistic latches to support single-writer
multi-reader semantics, and reduces concurrency control overhead
in read-intensive workloads. A read-only or read-write transaction
can acquire a latch either conventionally or optimistically based on
the desired operation and transaction type. Teseo spawns service
threads for sparse array and B+-tree structure modifications. When
a segment in a sparse array is full, Teseo requires a service thread to
determine a rebalance window of multiple segments in the sparse
array, lock them, and redistribute entries among these segments.
A sparse array resize either creates a new sparse array as the leaf
or splits the leaf into two new sparse arrays. These operations re-
quire locking multiple memory blocks exclusively. Transactions
that do not conflict with normal operations may conflict in locking
neighbor segments that may cause threads to block and stall. Also,

=== PAGE 3 ===
GTX: A Write-Optimized Latch-free Graph Data System with Transactional Support - Extended Version
GTX Technical Report, 2025, arxiv
multiple threads may compete in locking segments for rebalanc-
ing. Maintaining service threads also increases computing resource
contention. Experiment results in Section 10.1 show that Teseo suf-
fers the most performance degradation in workloads with hotspots
due to contentions during structure modifications. GTX overcomes
these through 1) A cooperative design with no service thread except
a single commit manager. GTX’s structure modification (edge-deltas
block consolidation) and garbage collection are handled by worker
threads cooperatively during runtime (Sections 6 and 9). 2) GTX’s
state-based block-protection protocol designates one worker thread
to clean one memory block to reduce contention. Worker threads
do not compete to lock memory blocks (Sections 6.2 and 6.3).
Sortledton [52] is a graph data structure optimized for the access
patterns popular in graph analytics. It organizes vertices in a 2-level
vector index and stores sorted adjacency lists in vectors and edge
blocks for better read performance at the expense of maintaining the
sort during updates. For hub vertices, Sortledton has a concurrent
unrolled skiplist [82] to store blocks of edges in sorted sets, where
each skiplist element is an edge block. Sortledton’s transactions
support scan and set operations on adjacency lists and concurrent
vertex/edge updates. However, Sortledton requires transactions to
know in advance their read and write sets, and lock them following
a global order beforehand through vertex locking. Transactions
need to complete all their reads before doing any writes. GTX’s
ACID transaction protocol does not require knowing read sets and
write sets beforehand. A GTX transaction can execute reads and
writes in any order during runtime (Section 6). Moreover, GTX’s
delta-chains-based concurrency control eliminates vertex-centric
locking (Section 6.1) to provide better concurrency.
Latch-free indexes and systems [24, 25, 42, 66, 67, 70, 71, 74, 99,
108, 110] use atomic operations, e.g.,𝐶𝐴𝑆and fetch_add, to serialize
concurrent operations. GTX uses atomic operations and delta-based
multi-versions for concurrent lock-free reads and to resolve write-
write conflicts. It has sequential memory blocks for adjacency lists
as in [100, 111] to amortize the cost of delta allocations. Deltas are
stored sequentially to reduce random access.
3
Overview of GTX
Figure 1: GTX Overview: Transactions and graph store
GTX manages and queries dynamic labeled property graphs [57],
where edges can contain labels, e.g., as in [111]. Fuchs et al. [52]
microbenchmark the popular access patterns in graph workloads.
Major takeaways from their study are: (1) Storing neighbors of
all vertices together (sequential vertex access) is beneficial but is
not necessary. (2) Sequential access to each vertex’s adjacency list
enables better performance. (3) A dense vertex identifier domain
has better performance for graph analytics than a sparse domain.
(4) Some graph algorithms access vertices in random order and
require a vertex index. Given these findings, we make several de-
sign decisions. GTX uses an adjacency-list-like structure, and stores
edges of a vertex sequentially in memory blocks (Section 4.2). GTX
uses a vertex index for fast lookup, and an atomic integer on a dense
domain to manage vertex IDs. For atomicity, consistency, and isola-
tion, graph updates and analytics are executed under read-write or
read-only transactions with snapshot isolation [26, 107]. Transac-
tions support vertex and edge reads, adjacency list scans, and writes
(insert, update, and delete). Graph analytics invoke adjacency list
scans iteratively via a read-only transaction. GTX supports graphs
with uniform and power-law edge distribution but is optimized for
power-law graphs. Figure 1 gives an overview of GTX’s storage and
constructs for transactions. The colored portion in gray corresponds
to GTX’s graph storage and the uncolored portion corresponds to
GTX’s transaction protocol with auxiliary data structures.
Figure 2: Vertex Delta and Operations
4
GTX Storage
GTX is a main-memory MVCC graph data system. Similar to other
𝑀𝑉𝐶𝐶-based systems [39, 42, 52, 67, 75, 111], GTX stores vertex
and edge updates into deltas, links deltas of the same object, and
manages deltas’ lifespan and visibility through timestamps. GTX
uses a multi-versioning design similar to Hekaton [42], Cicada [75],
and LiveGraph [111]. Each of GTX delta’s visibility and lifespan are
managed by creation and invalidation timestamps. A delta’s lifespan
is the time between its creation and its invalidation timestamps
(that is infinity for the latest version delta). A transaction 𝑇is
assigned a read timestamp (𝑟𝑡𝑠), and can read all deltas whose
lifespan overlaps 𝑇’s 𝑟𝑡𝑠. 𝑇creates deltas to update vertices and
edges. Deltas of the same vertex or edge are linked forming version
chains. The beginning of the version chain is the most recent delta.
GTX enforces that every delta has the same creation timestamp as
the invalidation timestamp of the delta right after it.
4.1
Vertex-centric Index
GTX uses a dense vertex domain, and maintains a vertex index. Fig-
ure 1’s colored portion (in gray) illustrates GTX’s storage. Sortled-
ton shows the benefits of having vector-based vertex table for graph
storage [52]. GTX designs a similar latch-free two-level vector-
based vertex index. Level-1 stores pointers to Level-2 in a fixed-size
array. Level-2 has vertex index vector segments that are of the same

=== PAGE 4 ===
GTX Technical Report, 2025, arxiv
Libin Zhou, Lu Xing, Yeasir Rayhan, Walid. G. Aref
size (or growing sizes). A transaction atomically fetch_adds a global
offset variable, and uses the return value as the ID of a new vertex,
say 𝑣. The corresponding Level-2 entry in the vertex index points to
𝑣and its edge versions. The initial vertex index has only 1 pointer
in Level-1 and allocates 1 Level-2 vector. When the vector runs out
of entries, the transaction creating the first vertex that resides in
the next vector allocates the next Level-2 vector, and claims its first
entry. Other concurrent transactions creating vertices that need
to be in the next vector will wait until the corresponding pointer
in Level-1 is initialized. When GTX rarely runs out of space to
allocate more vertex index entries, it allocates a new Level-1 array
with double the size, and copies all vector pointers there similar
to dynamic array expansion. The benefits are two-fold. Breaking
the Level-2 vectors into segments managed by pointers reduces
memory waste of allocating a single large vector. Level-2 vector ex-
tension avoids explicitly copying/touching vector contents and only
requires appending a new segment. Meanwhile, GTX still main-
tains 𝑂(1) vertex lookup. 𝑣’s vertex index entry can be retrieved at
𝑉[𝑖][𝑗]: 𝑖= 𝑣/𝑐and 𝑗= 𝑣𝑚𝑜𝑑𝑐, where 𝑐is the size of each Level-2
vector segment.
A vertex index entry stores an atomic pointer to the head of
the vertex delta-chain. Figure 2 shows an example of Vertex 20
(V20), ignoring the parts in red for now. V20 has 2 versions, 𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎_0
created and invalidated at timestamps 1987 and 3001 and 𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎_1
created at timestamp 3001. Each vertex delta stores how many
bytes its vertex property takes, and stores the property data inline.
𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎_0 does not store its invalidation timestamp and infers it from
𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎_1’s creation timestamp. Each vertex delta stores a pointer to
the previous delta of the same vertex, forming a delta chain.
4.2
Edge Deltas Storage
The second pointer in each vertex index entry points to an edge
label block. GTX stores all edges of the same source vertex and label
in an edge-deltas block. It stores one entry per label pointing to
an edge-deltas block and its associated delta-chains index, version
number, and state variable (Detailed in Sections 5, 6). It manages
all label entries in an array. We use 2 atomic variables per edge
label block to manage and access the block in a latch-free manner.
The first atomic offset variable controls which entries are valid in
the array, and the other atomic pointer points to the next block
to allocate more labels (initially null). A transaction allocates a
new label entry by incrementing the atomic offset, and uses the
corresponding array entry to store the new label. If the array is full,
it will allocate the next block and update the pointer. A transaction
looking up an label entry simply scans the array. To accommodate
concurrent updates, it reads the offset before and after the scan,
and will reinitiate the scan if the offset has been updated. The
experiment datasets and our latter discussion assume the graph
contains only 1 label and omits showing labels for brevity.
Figure 3’s contents in black illustrate V20’s edge-deltas block
and delta-chains index. GTX’s edge-deltas block has similar storage
layout to that of LiveGraph [111] and improves it with atomic mem-
ory allocation, edge delta-chains, and hybrid property data storage.
At the lowest address, the header stores the block’s metadata, e.g.,
creation time. Then, a property data storage section stores each
edge delta’s variable-sized property data. Fixed-sized edge deltas
are stored at the opposite end of the block. Edge deltas are logically
linked in different edge delta-chains. Each block has a delta-chains
index whose 𝑖𝑡ℎentry stores the offset of the 𝑖𝑡ℎedge delta-chain’s
head. The combined_offset combines the offsets of the latest edge
delta and property data in a 64-bit integer that can be atomically
updated by the hardware without a latch. It enables atomically allo-
cating memory for both the edge delta and its property in a single
operation. Its higher 32 bits store the offset of the property data re-
gion and the lower 32 bits store the offset of the edge deltas region,
extending from single direction space preallocation in Open Bw-
tree [100], and latch-based allocation in LiveGraph [111]. Silo [99]
and Tictoc [108] also store multiple objects in a single atomic word
to enable atomic multi-reads and multi-writes.
Each edge delta takes 1 cache line (64 bytes) to avoid false shar-
ing among concurrent writers. It stores a write operation and the
creation and invalidation timestamps for multi-versioning. An edge
delta’s previous_offset points to the previous edge delta on the delta
chain. At an edge-deltas block’s creation time, GTX determines its
edge delta-chain number, where transactions append edge deltas
to different delta chains using a hash function. Hekaton [42, 67]
also maintains linked lists of all versions in the same hash bucket
(may be different objects). GTX’s novelty lies in the combination
of pointer-based delta linking and sequential storage preallocation.
Its delta linking serves as an index for efficient single edge delta
lookup and all edge deltas of the same vertex are still stored sequen-
tially in one memory block to preserve localities in adjacency list
scans. Such a locality-preserving sequential storage proves to be
beneficial for the graph analytics [39, 52, 76, 95, 111]. Finally, GTX
delta chain storage and delta-chains index are tightly coupled with
concurrency control (Sction 6.1). Each edge delta also stores the
offset of the same edge’s previous edge delta to support efficient
visible version lookup. Given a target edge 𝑒, a reader transaction
locates 𝑒’s edge delta-chain, and uses edge deltas’ previous_offset
and previous_version_offset to locate 𝑒’s visible version. Edge delta’s
data size and data offset locate its edge property data. We extend
Cicada’s best-effort inlining [75] and take advantage of “wasted"
space in each cache line-aligned edge delta to design a hybrid stor-
age scheme for its variable-sized property. If the property size is
small, e.g., ≤16 bytes, it is stored in the cache line-aligned edge
delta to save space and reduce random memory access, else it is
stored in the data region. In contrast to Cicada’s inlining that only
applies to one version and has management overheads, every GTX
edge delta can store property data inline to save space and improve
cache performance. Because each edge delta’s inline data region is
allocated regardless of the property size for cache-line alignment,
there is no extra overhead for GTX’s hybrid storage scheme.
In the example, V20 has 3 edges: 𝑒(20, 4), 𝑒(20, 3), and 𝑒(20, 5)
(𝑖𝑛𝑠𝑒𝑟𝑡edge deltas) and maintains 2 edge delta-chains. Its delta re-
gion takes 192 bytes and data region takes 64 bytes (combined_offset).
𝑒(20, 4) and 𝑒(20, 3) have 32 bytes of property data each stored in
the data region (Offsets 0 and 32). 𝑒(20, 5) stores its 8-byte weight in-
line in the edge delta.𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎_𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑖𝑛_0 contains 1 edge delta𝑑(4, 𝐼𝑁𝑆)
at Offset 64, and𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎_𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑖𝑛_1 contains 2 edge deltas𝑑(3, 𝐼𝑁𝑆) and
𝑑(5, 𝐼𝑁𝑆) starting at Offset 192. The middle section is free space.

=== PAGE 5 ===
GTX: A Write-Optimized Latch-free Graph Data System with Transactional Support - Extended Version
GTX Technical Report, 2025, arxiv
Figure 3: Edge-deltas Block and Edge Operations
5
Graph Transaction Operations
GTX transactions support vertex and edge insert, delete, and update,
single vertex/edge lookup, and adjacency list scan. In this section,
we persent transaction operations, and defer transaction manage-
ment (e.g., concurrency control, commit) to Section 6. Let 𝑐𝑡𝑠, 𝑖𝑡𝑠,
𝑟𝑡𝑠, and 𝑤𝑡𝑠be the creation, invalidation, read, and write/commit
timestamps, respectively. At creation time, each transaction gets
an 𝑟𝑡𝑠and can see all deltas with overlapping lifespans. For writes,
transactions create deltas with transaction IDs as timestamps, and
update them with 𝑤𝑡𝑠at commit time.
5.1
Vertex Read and Update
GTX transactions update vertices through creating vertex deltas,
and read them by finding/reading visible deltas using atomic load
and 𝐶𝐴𝑆. Refer to the same example of V20 in Figure 2 including
the red parts. Assume that Transaction 𝑡with 𝑟𝑡𝑠= 2000 looks up
V20. After fetching V20’s delta chain pointer from the vertex index,
𝑡checks the delta chain head 𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎_1, and finds its 𝑐𝑡𝑠is larger
than 𝑡’s 𝑟𝑡𝑠. Thus, 𝑡uses the previous pointer to locate 𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎_0
with 𝑐𝑡𝑠= 1987. 𝑡determines 𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎_0 is visible, and reads it. If a
newer transaction 𝑡2 with 𝑟𝑡𝑠= 4000 also reads V20, 𝑡2 will read
𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎_1. Assume that a read-write transaction 𝑡𝑥𝑛_𝑥updates V20.
Similarly, it loads the delta chain head as in the read operation.
𝑡𝑥𝑛_𝑥checks 𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎_1’s 𝑐𝑡𝑠, and makes sure it is not a transaction
ID, nor larger than 𝑡𝑥𝑛_𝑥’s 𝑟𝑡𝑠. Else, 𝑡𝑥𝑛_𝑥immediately aborts due
to a write-write conflict. 𝑡𝑥𝑛_𝑥creates a new vertex delta 𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎_2
with the updated property, and stores𝑡𝑥𝑛_𝑥as its𝑐𝑡𝑠.𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎_2 stores
a pointer to 𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎_1. Then, 𝑡𝑥𝑛_𝑥invokes 𝐶𝐴𝑆to update the vertex
delta-chain pointer to point to 𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎_2. If 𝐶𝐴𝑆fails, 𝑡𝑥𝑛_𝑥aborts
due to write-write conflict. Else, 𝑡𝑥𝑛_𝑥commits at 𝑤𝑡𝑠= 3650, and
updates 𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎_2’s 𝑐𝑡𝑠to its 𝑤𝑡𝑠. This applies to vertex insert and
property update. Deletes are covered in Section 5.5.
While using a pointer-based delta chain and 𝐶𝐴𝑆is less efficient
due to pointer chasing, random memory access and competing
𝐶𝐴𝑆[100], vertex updates are less frequent than edge updates [111],
hence less conflicts from concurrent updates. Also, most transac-
tions need access to only the latest version of a vertex, and will
access it with a single pointer chase. Thus, the negative effects of
this design are minimal. On the other hand, detecting write-write
conflicts to the same vertex becomes simple. A failed 𝐶𝐴𝑆indicates
a concurrent transaction has updated the vertex delta chain.
5.2
Edge Update
GTX transactions update edges by creating edge deltas (insert,
update, and delete) in edge-deltas blocks. GTX supports directed
graphs using 2 labels and 2 edge-deltas blocks per vertex for fanin
and fanout edges. Undirected graphs store each edge twice in both
vertices’ edge-deltas blocks as in [39, 52].
Refer to the example of V20’s edge-deltas block in Figure 3. Col-
ors refer to transactions’ updates, e.g., Transaction𝑇1’s updates are
in dark blue. Assume that 𝑇1 with 𝑟𝑡𝑠= 9 updates 𝑒(20, 10) with a
new 32-bytes property. First, it calculates that 𝑒(20, 10) belongs to
𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎_𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑖𝑛_0 by 10 𝑚𝑜𝑑2 = 0, where the number of delta chains
in this block is 2.𝑇1 reads the delta-chains index, finds the offset 64,
and checks the edge delta at this location. 𝑇1 sees 𝑑(4, 𝐼𝑁𝑆) has a
smaller 𝑐𝑡𝑠than its 𝑟𝑡𝑠, so it decides to lock 𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎_𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑖𝑛_0 (covered
in Section 6.1). After 𝑇1 successfully locks 𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎_𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑖𝑛_0, it uses
each edge delta’s previous_offset to look for the previous version
of 𝑒(20, 10), that in this example does not exist. A lookup of the
previous version is necessary to avoid creating duplicate edges and
link versions together. Delta-chains index enables efficient lookup
of edges. Since the new edge version has a 32-bytes property, 𝑇1
needs to store the property in the data region. Then, it invokes the
delta allocation protocol (32 bytes for data and 64 bytes for delta
regions) to update the combined_offset, and creates the correspond-
ing edge delta with 𝑐𝑡𝑠= 𝑇1, 𝑡𝑦𝑝𝑒= 𝐼𝑁𝑆, previous_offset pointing
to 𝑑(4, 𝐼𝑁𝑆), no previous_version_offset, data size equaling 32, and
data offset equaling 64. When𝑇1 is committing, it updates the delta-
chains index entry to point to 𝑑(10, 𝐼𝑁𝑆), releases the delta-chain
lock, gets its 𝑤𝑡𝑠= 10, and updates 𝑑(10, 𝐼𝑁𝑆)’s 𝑐𝑡𝑠= 10.
The example also shows 2 other transactions 𝑇2 and 𝑇3 delet-
ing 𝑒(20, 4) and updating 𝑒(20, 5) with a weight 40.1. 𝑇2 follows
similar procedures as 𝑇1 with a few differences. 𝑇2 deletes an ex-
isting edge, so it fetches 𝑑(4, 𝐼𝑁𝑆) and puts transaction ID 𝑇2 in
𝑑(4, 𝐼𝑁𝑆)’s 𝑖𝑡𝑠. 𝑇2 also writes 𝑑(4, 𝐼𝑁𝑆)’s offset 64 in 𝑑(4, 𝐷𝐸𝐿)’s
previous_version_offset to link versions. During commit, 𝑡2 writes
its 𝑤𝑡𝑠= 12 to 𝑑(4, 𝐷𝐸𝐿)’s 𝑐𝑡𝑠and 𝑑(4, 𝐼𝑁𝑆)’s 𝑖𝑡𝑠. 𝑇3 updates
𝑒(20, 5) with a new 8-bytes weight and works similarly as 𝑇2. The
difference is that the new weight is stored inline in 𝑑(5,𝑈𝑃𝐷). 𝑇1
stores it in the data region and𝑇2’s 𝑑(4, 𝐷𝐸𝐿) has no property data.

=== PAGE 6 ===
GTX Technical Report, 2025, arxiv
Libin Zhou, Lu Xing, Yeasir Rayhan, Walid. G. Aref
5.3
Edge Lookup
GTX supports single edge lookup given (𝑠𝑟𝑐,𝑑𝑠𝑡,𝑙𝑎𝑏𝑒𝑙). The 𝑠𝑟𝑐
and 𝑙𝑎𝑏𝑒𝑙locate the edge-deltas block and its delta-chains index.
Then, each reader transaction 𝑡calculates the edge delta-chain
from 𝑑𝑠𝑡, and reads its deltas. After finding a delta with a match-
ing 𝑑𝑠𝑡, 𝑡compares its 𝑟𝑡𝑠with the delta’s lifespan, and uses the
previous_version_offset to locate the visible version if needed.
Refer to the same example in Figure 3. The colors of arrows
represent the search path of each transaction. Transaction 𝑇4 with
𝑟𝑡𝑠= 15 looks up 𝑒(20, 3). After locating the edge-deltas block, 𝑇4
calculates 𝑒(20, 3) belongs to 𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎_𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑖𝑛_1 by 3 𝑚𝑜𝑑2 = 1. 𝑇4
reads the offset (384) from the index, and finds 𝑑(5,𝑈𝑃𝐷), the head
of 𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎_𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑖𝑛_1. Then, 𝑇4 reads 𝑑(5,𝑈𝑃𝐷)’s previous_offset to
search the delta chain. After reading 𝑑(5, 𝐼𝑁𝑆)’s previous_offset, 𝑇4
finds 𝑑(3, 𝐼𝑁𝑆), and checks its 𝑐𝑡𝑠and 𝑖𝑡𝑠. 𝑇4 determines 𝑑(3, 𝐼𝑁𝑆)
is visible, and uses its data offset 32, and the data size 32 bytes to read
the edge property accordingly. Transactions 𝑇5 with 𝑟𝑡𝑠= 15 and
𝑇6 with 𝑟𝑡𝑠= 10 both look up 𝑒(20, 4). After reading 𝑑(4, 𝐷𝐸𝐿) of
𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎_𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑖𝑛_0, 𝑇5 determines that 𝑑(4, 𝐷𝐸𝐿) is visible, and reports
𝑒(20, 4) being deleted. 𝑇6 sees 𝑑(4, 𝐷𝐸𝐿)’s 𝑐𝑡𝑠= 12, larger than its
𝑟𝑡𝑠= 10. Therefore, it uses 𝑑(4, 𝐷𝐸𝐿)’s previous_version_offset 64
to find 𝑑(4, 𝐼𝑁𝑆), verifies its 𝑟𝑡𝑠overlaps with 𝑑(4, 𝐼𝑁𝑆)’s lifespan,
and reads the 32 bytes property data of 𝑒(20, 4).
5.4
Adjacency List Scan
GTX supports sequential adjacency list scan given (𝑠𝑟𝑐,𝑙𝑎𝑏𝑒𝑙). Af-
ter locating the edge-deltas block, a transaction loads the com-
bined_offset to determine where to start the scan, and scans every
edge delta in the block. It compares its 𝑟𝑡𝑠with each delta’s lifespan,
and returns visible edge deltas. We use an iterator model for adja-
cency list scans, and graph analytics directly accessing each block.
In Figure 3, Transaction 𝑇7 with 𝑟𝑡𝑠= 20 scans V20’s adjacency
list. It loads the combined_offset, determines the edge deltas start
at Offset 384, and reads every edge delta from there. It reports V20
has edges 𝑒(20, 5) with Weight 40.1, 𝑒(20, 10) and 𝑒(20, 3).
5.5
Vertex Delete
Vertex deletion is an expensive but necessary operation in graph sys-
tems. Recent graph database benchmarks LDBC-SNB-Interactive-
v2 [14, 83] and LDBC-SNB-BI [13, 98] include deep cascading dele-
tion operations. Deleting a vertex requires removing all its adjacent
edges atomically. It preserves graph consistency by avoiding dan-
gling edges. Therefore, GTX’s vertex deletion contains three steps:
(1) Vertex Locking, (2) Vertex Delete, and (3) Edge Delete. Vertex
Locking puts the vertex in an exclusive state, and thus preventing
other transactions from reading or writing the vertex or its edges.
Vertex Delete deletes the vertex, and Edge Delete deletes all its
edges. Here, we illustrate how to delete Vertex V20. To delete V20,
Transaction 𝑡𝑑puts V20 in an exclusive delete state, and installs a
special vertex-delete delta. At this moment, V20 and edges in its
edge-deltas blocks are considered as being deleted. Then, 𝑡𝑑scans
V20’s adjacency list (edge-deltas block) to identify its edges and
deletes these “reverse" edges in V20’s neighbors’ adjacency lists
using edge delete operations (Section 5.2). 𝑡𝑑also adds V20 into
its thread-local recycled vertex list. After the vertex’s deltas and
edge-deltas blocks have been garbage collected (detailed in Sec-
tion 9), V20 can be reallocated to accommodate future workloads.
GTX currently only allows one vertex delete at a time, and we find
this enough for vertex delete requirements, and it simplifies con-
currency control. LDBC-SNB benchmarks have less than 1% writes
as deletes, and vertex deletes are a minority among them [7, 83, 98].
More on vertex delete, including exclusive delete state, is presented
in Section 6.6.
6
Transaction Management
GTX allocates a set of worker threads that execute transactions.
Each thread executes its own transactions while being cooperative,
i.e., performing work on behalf of other transactions. For analytical
workloads, GTX uses OpenMP [16] threads to collectively execute
a single read-only transaction. GTX supports ACID transactions.
GTX transactions can execute multiple read and write operations
atomically and ensure no dangling or duplicate edges. GTX supports
Snapshot Isolation (SI) transactions [26] based on 𝑀𝑉𝐶𝐶[107], the
only supported isolation level of LiveGraph [111] and Teseo [39],
and stronger than the state-of-the-art graph DBMS Neo4j’s default
Read Committed [9]. We find SI sufficient for graph workload. State-
of-the-art graph benchmarks LDBC-SNB-Interactive-v1 [45] and
v2 [83] require read committed and SI, respectively. GTX manages
two variables for SI and MVCC: Global read epoch(𝑔𝑟𝑒) and Global
write epoch(𝑔𝑤𝑒) as in LiveGraph [111]. Silo [99] designs an epoch-
based transaction protocol but GTX is only similar in resource
management. A GTX transaction acquires its 𝑟𝑡𝑠from 𝑔𝑟𝑒when
created, and gets assigned a 𝑤𝑡𝑠from 𝑔𝑤𝑒at commit time. Under
SI, GTX transactions have no read-write conflicts, and only need to
detect write-write conflicts. As in Section 5.1, we use 𝐶𝐴𝑆to detect
vertex update conflicts. In Sections 6.1, 6.2, we discuss concurrency
control for edge delta-chains and edge-deltas blocks. Every trans-
action can see all deltas created, but not invalidated by itself by
storing and checking transaction IDs in delta timestamps. A GTX
transaction 𝑡only updates the latest versions: 𝑡compares the latest
delta’s 𝑐𝑡𝑠of the object 𝑡intends to update. 𝑡can update only if the
latest delta is not an in-progress delta of another transaction and
the delta’s lifespan overlaps 𝑡.𝑟𝑡𝑠. GTX supports redo logging and
checkpoint for durability.
6.1
Adaptive Delta-Chain Locking
Section 5.2 shows that a transaction 𝑡needs to lock edge delta-
chains before installing edge deltas. Locking delta chains enables
concurrent updates to different edges in the same edge-deltas block
and detect write-write conflicts: Updates to the same edges. Delta
chain granularity locking is a middle ground between vertex and
edge locks; providing better concurrency than vertex locks and
reducing overheads by managing a lock per edge. GTX does not use
a high-overhead lock manager but a locking bit in the delta-chains
index offsets as in Silo and TicToc [99, 108]’s version timestamps.
Each delta-chains index entry uses its most significant bit as the
locking bit. To lock a delta chain, 𝑡checks if the locking bit is set,
and uses a 𝐶𝐴𝑆to set the bit atomically. Using locking bits in index
offsets enables updating both the locking bit and the delta chain
head atomically during commit as in Silo [99] and TicToc [108]
that release locks while installing new timestamps. If the bit has

=== PAGE 7 ===
GTX: A Write-Optimized Latch-free Graph Data System with Transactional Support - Extended Version
GTX Technical Report, 2025, arxiv
already been set by other transactions, or the 𝐶𝐴𝑆fails, 𝑡detects
a write-write conflict and aborts. Section 6.3 shows delta chain
locking’s adaptivity to edge workload history.
6.2
Block Protection Protocol
GTX supports different access permissions on edge-deltas blocks
using a block state-based protection protocol inspired by [74]. GTX
manages a global data structure 𝑏𝑙𝑜𝑐𝑘_𝑎𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑠_𝑡𝑎𝑏𝑙𝑒with one entry
per worker thread. When a worker thread accesses an edge-deltas
block, it calculates the block ID through the block’s source vertex ID
and label, and stores it in its table entry. Each table entry is padded
to take one cache line to avoid false sharing. GTX associates every
edge-deltas block with an atomic state variable. GTX defines 5 states:
𝑛𝑜𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑙, overflow, 𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑜𝑙𝑖𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛, 𝑖𝑛𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑙𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛, and 𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑡𝑒. 𝑛𝑜𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑙
makes up the majority of an edge-deltas block lifetime where both
reads and writes are allowed. All examples in Figure 3 assume blocks
in State 𝑛𝑜𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑙. States overflow, 𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑜𝑙𝑖𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛, and 𝑖𝑛𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑙𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛
are for edge-deltas block consolidation (Section 6.3). overflow and
𝑖𝑛𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑙𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛provide mutual exclusion on an edge-deltas block, and
𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑜𝑙𝑖𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛makes the block read-only. 𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑡𝑒is used for vertex
delete, and prevents other transactions from accessing a block.
The Block Protection protocol has 2 operations: register_access and
change_state. When Transaction 𝑡accesses Edge-deltas Block 𝑏,
𝑡calls register_access(b) to examine 𝑏’s state. If 𝑡’s operation is
compatible with 𝑏’s state, 𝑡stores 𝑏’s ID in 𝑡’s 𝑏𝑙𝑜𝑐𝑘_𝑎𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑠_𝑡𝑎𝑏𝑙𝑒
entry. Then, 𝑡rechecks 𝑏’s state. If it has not changed, 𝑡can proceed.
If 𝑏’s state is incompatible with 𝑡’s operation, 𝑡unregisters its block
access by storing 0 in the table, and retries later. Upon finishing, 𝑡
unregisters its block access. A worker thread 𝑡ℎneeding to change
𝑏’s state updates the state to the new value. If the new state is
exclusive, 𝑡ℎscans the block_access_table. If 𝑡ℎfinds no threads
accessing 𝑏, 𝑡ℎexecutes the operations in the new state. Else, 𝑡ℎ
continues scanning the 𝑏𝑙𝑜𝑐𝑘_𝑎𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑠_𝑡𝑎𝑏𝑙𝑒until 𝑏is “safe".
Similar functionalities can be achieved using shared-exclusive
locks, but we argue that Block Protection Protocol is better-suited
for GTX’s graph workloads. GTX already handles edge and vertex-
level write-write conflicts using locking bits and 𝐶𝐴𝑆. Most of the
time, an edge-deltas block is in 𝑛𝑜𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑙state, and a transaction 𝑡
only needs to read the state variable, and to store the block ID in
its block_access_table entry. 𝑡does not write to the shared memory
variables to reduce cache invalidation across cores. Only during
edge-deltas block consolidation and vertex deletion, 𝑡needs to
modify shared state variables and scans the block_access_table but
these are rare. We trade-off their extra costs for low overhead
execution of the more common normal transaction operations.
6.3
Consolidation of an Edge-Deltas Block
GTX preallocates storage in edge-deltas blocks to reduce edge delta
allocation overhead and provide sequential adjacency list access as
in [100, 111]. As edge deltas build up, edge-deltas blocks become full.
GTX needs to allocate new blocks to accommodate new edge deltas
and recycle memory of the invalidated deltas. GTX edge-deltas
block consolidation analyzes edges, and allocates a new block to
store the latest version and future edge deltas. GTX consolidation
has 2 features: Reduce interference with concurrent transactions
via the Block Protection Protocol, and adjust parallelism in the
adjacency list to accommodate workloads using adaptive delta-
chain locking. Refer to the example in Figure 4. Operations in each
phase are in different colors. V20’s Edge-deltas Block 𝑏of Size 512
bytes is full with a 64 byte header, 6 edge deltas (384 bytes) and
64 bytes of property data with combined_offset=(64«32+384). Two
ongoing transactions 𝑇1 and 𝑇2 have edge deltas in 𝑏. Transaction
𝑡updates an edge and increments combined_offset to (64«32+448) to
allocate a delta. 64 + 448 = 512 is greater than the total space, so 𝑡
starts 𝑏’s consolidation. 𝑡changes 𝑏’s state to overflow, waits till no
other transactions are accessing 𝑏, and restores combined_offset to
(64«32+384). The corrupted overflow combined_offset cannot locate
where edge deltas start. Resorting it in an exclusive state prevents
concurrent transactions from accessing it. The atomic fetch_add
ensures that only 1 transaction causes the overflow.
Analysis: 𝑡changes the state to𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑜𝑙𝑖𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛, and analyzes𝑏. Only
edge updates are prohibited in this state. 𝑡scans 𝑏and finds latest
version edge deltas: 𝑑(4,𝑈𝑃𝐷), 𝑑(5, 𝐼𝑁𝑆), and 𝑑(3, 𝐼𝑁𝑆). It also
records 𝑑(5,𝑈𝑃𝐷) of 𝑇1 and 𝑑(4, 𝐷𝐸𝐿) of 𝑇2 as in-progress. 𝑡cal-
culates a new block size using the workload history: latest version
and in progress edge deltas. The new block needs at least 418 bytes:
352 bytes to accommodate latest version and in progress deltas,
and 64 bytes for the block header. Thus, 𝑡allocates a new block
of size 1024 bytes; the smallest power of 2 that is at least 1.5x of
418, and 4 delta chains. We design multiple different heuristics to
control the adaptivity of edge-deltas blocks. One heuristic Simple
calculates the smallest power of 2 of the minimum required delta
storage (e.g., 512) here, and checks the new block’s fill ratio. If the
ratio is large, e.g., larger than 75%, it will promote the block size to
the next power of 2 (e.g., 1024) to avoid repetitive consolidations.
Another heuristic LifeSpan calculates the ratio based on the distri-
bution of creation and invalidation timestamps of all deltas in the
edge-deltas block, and how long the block exists between its cre-
ation time and the consolidation time. A long-living block indicates
coldness, and requires a smaller ratio, e.g., 1×, and a short-living
block indicates hotness and requires a larger ratio. In the experi-
ments, it is found that Simple already suffices. We aim to develop
more sophisticated models and functions to calculate the ratio for
the LifeSpan heuristic in the future. Larger block sizes and more
edge delta-chains can accommodate more edge deltas, and enable
more concurrent updates. 𝑡allocates a new edge-deltas block 𝑏′ and
updates its header: pointing 𝑏′’s previous pointer to 𝑏, and setting
𝑏′’s creation timestamp to 10; the largest invalidation timestamp in
the 𝑏. Transactions with 𝑟𝑡𝑠< 10 can access 𝑏. 𝑡also registers that
𝑏can be safely recycled after Timestamp 10. 𝑡writes the 3 latest
version edge deltas to 𝑏′, and updates the delta-chains index.
Installation: After installing all latest version edge deltas,𝑡changes
the block state to 𝑖𝑛𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑙𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛to synchronize transactions. GTX
handles concurrency at delta chain level that may change after a
consolidation. To avoid inconsistencies in delta chains after con-
solidation, 𝑖𝑛𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑙𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛synchronizes committing transactions be-
fore swapping the edge-deltas blocks. 𝑡updates delta-chains in-
dex entries to “install" its edge deltas during commit (Section 5.2).
𝑖𝑛𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑙𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛requires all transactions that have already “installed"
their edge deltas in 𝑏to commit or abort before 𝑏continues con-
solidation, while committing transactions cannot install their edge
deltas if 𝑏already has reached 𝑖𝑛𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑙𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛. 𝑡knows which delta
chains and transactions to check based on the previous analysis.

=== PAGE 8 ===
GTX Technical Report, 2025, arxiv
Libin Zhou, Lu Xing, Yeasir Rayhan, Walid. G. Aref
Figure 4: Consolidation Example
Figure 5: Thread 5’s Transaction Table Partition
Assume that 𝑇2 has installed its edge delta but later aborts and
𝑇1 is still running. 𝑡waits till seeing 𝑇2’s final status(abort), and
only writes 𝑑(5,𝑈𝑃𝐷) to 𝑏′. If 𝑇2 were to commit, 𝑡would also
write 𝑑(4, 𝐷𝐸𝐿) to 𝑏′, and update the delta-chains index to point to
𝑑(4, 𝐷𝐸𝐿). After installing all in-progress edge deltas, 𝑡increases
the block version number, swaps𝑏𝑙𝑜𝑐𝑘_𝑝𝑡𝑟and index, and switches
the block state back to 𝑛𝑜𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑙. It allows other transactions, e.g.,
𝑇1, to access the block. Later, 𝑇1 commits and updates its edge
delta at 𝑐𝑡𝑠= 18. Using the Block Protection Protocol ensures little
overhead when the block is not overflowing, and improves concur-
rency during consolidation. Block consolidation adjusts block size
and concurrency level to adapt to the workload: Hot(cold) blocks
allocate more(less) memory and provide more(less) concurrency.
6.4
Lazy Update
GTX uses Lazy Update to reduce latency of transaction commits,
and enforce SI [26, 107]. It distributes a transaction table to store
transaction status: Each thread maintains its own transaction table,
and can access other transaction tables based on thread IDs. We use
the most significant 8 bits in transaction IDs to store worker thread
information. Each transaction ID also has the most significant bit set
to distinguish them from timestamps as discussed below. When a
worker thread starts a new transaction, it calculates the transaction
ID from its thread ID and a local counter, and stores the transaction
entry in its transaction table. Each worker thread maintains every
transaction 𝑡’s 𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑡𝑢𝑠and 𝑜𝑝_𝑐𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡in its transaction table. 𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑡𝑢𝑠
records 𝑡’s current state: 𝐼𝑛_𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑠, 𝐴𝑏𝑜𝑟𝑡that are predefined
64-bit integers or a positive commit timestamp. 𝑜𝑝_𝑐𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡records
the number of deltas created by 𝑡. 𝑡has 𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑡𝑢𝑠= 𝐼𝑛_𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑔𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑠and
𝑜𝑝_𝑐𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡= 0 at creation time, and increments the 𝑜𝑝_𝑐𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡as it
creates more deltas. If𝑡aborts, its𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑡𝑢𝑠is set to 𝐴𝑏𝑜𝑟𝑡. If𝑡commits,
its 𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑡𝑢𝑠stores its commit timestamp. Figure 5 gives an example of
Thread 5’s transaction table. Thread 5 has created 17 transactions
and the table contains its 15-17𝑡ℎtransactions’ information.
At runtime, a transaction 𝑡may access an edge-deltas block or
vertex delta but encounters another transaction 𝑞’s in-progress
(edge) delta with 𝑐𝑡𝑠= 𝑞. 𝑡examines 𝑞’s status via 𝑞’s ID, and up-
dates the delta’s 𝑐𝑡𝑠(and previous version’s 𝑖𝑡𝑠) to 𝑞’s 𝑤𝑡𝑠if 𝑞has
committed. Then, 𝑡decrements 𝑞’s 𝑜𝑝_𝑐𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡entry. Each transac-
tion table is a circular array, and its entries can be reused if𝑜𝑝_𝑐𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡
equals 0. It enables 𝑂(1) lookup of transaction status using trans-
action ID. Similar approaches for managing delta commit, abort,
and visibility by cooperative threads are used in CTR’s fast recov-
ery [22], Hekaton’s cooperative resource management [42], and
Hint Bits for reduced visibility check overheads [4, 88]. GTX uses
Lazy Update for a new purpose, namely, high throughput and low
latency transaction commit.
6.5
Hybrid Transaction Commit and Abort
GTX designs a high throughput low latency commit protocol for
its read-write transactions inspired by Constant Time Recovery
(CTR)’s fast recovery using a global table [22]. GTX’s hybrid group-
commit protocol combines Lazy Updates and group commits to sup-
port fast transaction commit while maintaining SI correctness [26,
107]. GTX has a commit manager thread that manages a global
commit array, where each worker thread has an entry to register
its committing transaction. A committing transaction 𝑡starts with
a preparation phase: 𝑡makes its edge deltas the heads of their cor-
responding edge delta-chains, and unlocks them by updating the
associated delta-chains index entries (Sections 5.2, 6.1). Section 6.3
introduces consolidation that may modify delta chains storage.
Thus, during the preparation phase, 𝑡must register block access
using the Block Protection Protocol, and checks block version. 𝑡is
only allowed to install its edge deltas in 𝑛𝑜𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑙and 𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑜𝑙𝑖𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛
states. For other states, 𝑡has to wait and retry. If the block version
has changed since 𝑡wrote its last delta, 𝑡has to “relock" all delta
chains its edge deltas belong to. Only after locking all needed delta
chains, 𝑡can install its edge deltas. Otherwise, 𝑡aborts. 𝑡executes
commit preparation in a vertex ID order to avoid deadlocks. Af-
ter 𝑡’s preparation phase, future transactions can lock these delta
chains, and lookup 𝑡’s edge deltas using the delta-chains index.
These operations are not needed for vertex deltas. Then, 𝑡puts
a pointer to its transaction table entry in its commit array entry.
The commit manager adds 1 to 𝑔𝑤𝑒as the group commit times-
tamp (𝑤𝑡𝑠), and scans the commit array. For each transaction, say
𝑡, in the array, the commit manager writes 𝑤𝑡𝑠as 𝑡’s status in the
transaction table entry. After scanning the whole array, the commit
manager fetch_adds 𝑔𝑟𝑒by 1, atomically committing all trans-
actions in this commit group at 𝑤𝑡𝑠. After being assigned a 𝑤𝑡𝑠, 𝑡
eagerly updates its deltas’ timestamps while the concurrently exe-
cuting transactions can Lazy Update them, making up the hybrid
commit protocol. Correctness-wise, transactions starting after the

=== PAGE 9 ===
GTX: A Write-Optimized Latch-free Graph Data System with Transactional Support - Extended Version
GTX Technical Report, 2025, arxiv
incremented 𝑔𝑟𝑒are guaranteed to see deltas of the commit group.
Performance-wise, it allows a group of transactions to commit with-
out updating all their deltas, and the new 𝑔𝑟𝑒to start immediately.
It reduces group commit latency and allows the commit manager to
work on the next commit group without waiting for the previous
group to commit all its deltas. It reduces potential stalls of the new
commit group caused by transactions with large write sets, and
allows concurrent transactions to cooperate and parallelize these
transactions’ delta commits. It also decreases the synchronization
between the commit manager and the commit group.
Transaction Abort: An aborting read-write transaction 𝑡writes
𝐴𝑏𝑜𝑟𝑡to its transaction table entry. Then,𝑡iterates over its modified
edge-deltas blocks, aborts all of 𝑡’s deltas by writing 𝐴𝑏𝑜𝑟𝑡to their
creation timestamps, and unsets any lock bits in the delta chains. 𝑡
aborts all its vertex deltas by removing them from the delta chains.
6.6
State-aware Transaction Operations
Edge Operations. Transactions use the Block Protection Proto-
col for edge operations: states 𝑛𝑜𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑙and 𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑜𝑙𝑖𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛for reads,
and 𝑛𝑜𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑙for writes. To accommodate block version change af-
ter consolidation, readers compare their 𝑟𝑡𝑠with blocks’ creation
timestamp, and may need to use previous pointer to read an earlier
edge-deltas block. Writers relock delta chains as in the commit
preparation phase (Section 6.5) if they have edge deltas in the block
with changed version and will abort if the relocking fails.
Vertex Delete. Block Protection Protocol has a an exclusive state
𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑡𝑒for deep cascading vertex deletes at high priority. For ex-
ample, when deleting V20 (Section 5.5), 𝑡𝑑sets each of V20’s edge-
deltas block’s state to 𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑡𝑒to delete the whole adjacency list.
Concurrent transactions will abort if they see 𝑑𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑡𝑒on an edge-
deltas block. After deleting all V20’s edges in neighbors’ edge-deltas
blocks, 𝑡𝑑follows the same hybrid commit protocol. One difference
is that 𝑡𝑑never aborts, and waits to lock delta chains to delete
reverse edges of V20. After 𝑡𝑑has committed, it registers V20’s
vertex delta and all its edge-deltas blocks safe to be recycled after
𝑡𝑑’s commit timestamp (more details in Section 9). GTX assigns
vertex delete highest priority to satisfy privacy laws like European
Union’s General Data Protection Regulation that requires timely
deletion of user data [83, 92, 98].
7
Durability and Recovery
7.1
Group Redo Logging
Since both GTX and LiveGraph [111] use group commit, we extend
GTX’s commit protocol by redo logging that is similar to that of
LiveGraph. Each transaction maintains a redo logging buffer in its
transaction table entry, recording newly created vertex and edge
versions. After the commit manager scans the commit array and
determines the commit group, it groups all individual transactions’
commit logs into blocks and writes them to disk. GTX only main-
tains redo logging because there is no persistent store to be undone,
similar to other main memory DBMSs [42, 79, 109]. It also adopts
value logging as in Silor [109] to enable highly parallel recovery.
We support both synchronous and asynchronous logging. GTX
forces the group commit log to be persisted before committing
the transaction group. Transactions can eagerly or Lazily update
deltas but those deltas would not be visible to new transactions
until the commit manager persists the log and updates the 𝑔𝑟𝑒. It
ensures full durability but limits performance. GTX also supports
asynchronous logging [79]. It allows transactions to commit, and
a new commit group to start while their logs are still buffered in
memory (later written to disk in larger blocks). It has less influ-
ence on the normal transaction throughput at the risk of losing
committed transaction updates. Our experiments show 20% and
12% throughput degradation for synchronous and asynchronous
logging, respectively.
7.2
Incremental Fuzzy Checkpointing
Inspired by the main-memory systems Hekaton [42] and Silor [109],
we design a delta-based fuzzy checkpoint protocol that is collab-
orative, parallel, and incremental. GTX manages a global check-
point object that is accessible to all worker threads. It contains the
timestamps the current and last checkpoints begin (𝑐𝑢𝑟𝑟𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑡𝑠and
𝑙𝑎𝑠𝑡_𝑡𝑠), the maximum vertex ID 𝑚𝑎𝑥_𝑣𝑖𝑑when this checkpoint
begins, and the current checkpoint progress 𝑐𝑢𝑟𝑟𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑣𝑖𝑑. After 𝑥
transaction operations, Worker Thread 𝑡enters the checkpoint
phase. If the checkpoint is “uninitialized", 𝑡initializes it by up-
dating atomic flags. It stores GTX’s maximum vertex ID, and 𝑔𝑟𝑒
in the checkpoint’s 𝑚𝑎𝑥_𝑣𝑖𝑑and 𝑐𝑢𝑟𝑟𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑡𝑠, and creates a new
checkpoint directory at a system-designated location for all check-
points. Each checkpoint directory stores the 𝑐𝑢𝑟𝑟𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑡𝑠in its name
to maintain a chronological order of checkpoints. Each worker
thread appends to a separate checkpoint file within this directory.
After initialization, or if the checkpoint is already initialized, 𝑡per-
forms one round of cooperative checkpointing. 𝑡𝑓𝑒𝑡𝑐ℎ_𝑎𝑑𝑑𝑠the
𝑐𝑢𝑟𝑟𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑣𝑖𝑑by a number 𝑧. Assuming the return value is 𝑘, 𝑡check-
points Vertices 𝑘to 𝑘+ 𝑧−1. For each vertex, say 𝑣, 𝑡reads 𝑣’s
latest version vertex and edge deltas from the vertex delta chain and
edge-deltas blocks. All latest version deltas with 𝑐𝑡𝑠> 𝑙𝑎𝑠𝑡_𝑡𝑠
will be written to 𝑡’s checkpoint file sequentially. Also, 𝑡records
each edge-deltas block size to enable appropriate allocation during
recovery. After 𝑐𝑢𝑟𝑟𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑣𝑖𝑑> 𝑚𝑎𝑥_𝑣𝑖𝑑, the current checkpoint fin-
ishes. The last worker thread to finish its local checkpoint updates
the system metadata to mark the new checkpoint directory as the
latest checkpoint. GTX’s checkpoint is fuzzy. It does not guarantee
a transaction-consistent state: a transaction started after 𝑐𝑢𝑟𝑟𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑡𝑠
may only have parts of its updates persisted in the snapshot. We
choose this design for the same reasons as those for Silor [109]. We
do not want the system to force a snapshot on checkpoint which
may delay garbage collection and incur extra memory allocation
cost. Also GTX has to replay redo logs starting from 𝑐𝑢𝑟𝑟𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑡𝑠,
so there is no need to enforce a transaction-consistent snapshot.
GTX checkpoint is incremental. A new checkpoint stores only the
latest version changes since the last checkpoint. GTX checkpoint
files are append- and then read-only. When the checkpoints reach
a threshold, an LSM-tree-styled merging will merge the disk files
into a single checkpoint. Our experiments show an additional 5-10%
throughput degradation depending on the checkpoint frequency
than only using the redo log while reduces the log size by up to
95%.

=== PAGE 10 ===
GTX Technical Report, 2025, arxiv
Libin Zhou, Lu Xing, Yeasir Rayhan, Walid. G. Aref
7.3
Parallel Recovery
We propose a parallel recovery technique similar to those of Silor
and Hekaton [42, 109] using value logging and multiple checkpoint
files to have high parallelism in recovery. Within each checkpoint di-
rectory, each checkpoint file stores a disjoint set of vertices and their
edges. GTX recovery starts with the latest checkpoint directory.
Each worker thread loads its own checkpoint file in the directory,
and writes the latest version edges and vertices into GTX. This step
has little interference among threads because each checkpoint file
stores a disjoint set of vertices and edges. After finishing one check-
point, worker threads move on to the previous checkpoint until all
checkpoints are processed. Then, worker threads replay the logs
from the log tail until the latest checkpoint’s timestamp. Worker
threads replay operations in parallel as in normal edge and vertex
updates but create deltas with actual creation timestamps instead of
transaction IDs. Notice that for every vertex or edge in a checkpoint
and redo logging, reconstruction starts with locating the previous
version delta. The replay takes place only if the operation’s create
timestamp is larger than the latest version delta’s.
8
Serializable Transactions
Serializable read-write transactions are implemented using read set
validation [42, 75, 99]. While GTX’s SI only requires transactions
to read a consistent snapshot, Serializability in GTX requires a
transaction’s reads and writes to logically happen at the same time
(its read-set stays unmodified during transaction execution) [42]. In
𝑀𝑉𝐶𝐶systems, read-only transactions acquire a read timestamp
(𝑟𝑡𝑠) at create time, and sees all versions with overlapping lifespan.
These read-only transactions can always be put in a serial order
according to their 𝑟𝑡𝑠. Thus, our focus is on read-write transactions
with both reads and writes on the graph.
Each read-write transaction, say 𝑡, locally keeps a read set 𝑅,
scan set 𝑆, and a write set 𝑊. 𝑡stores all vertices and edges it reads
in 𝑅, and all adjacency lists it scans in 𝑆. 𝑡records each of its writes
in 𝑊. When 𝑡searches an edge delta-chain or scans an edge-deltas
block, 𝑡checks whether the edge delta-chain or edge-deltas block
contains a delta with larger 𝑐𝑡𝑠than 𝑡’s 𝑟𝑡𝑠. If this is the case, 𝑡can
abort early because 𝑡’s writes will break serializability. When 𝑡is
committing, besides the preparation phase to install edge deltas
(Section 6.5), 𝑡has to validate each vertex/edge in its read set, and
edge-deltas block in its scan set. 𝑡groups edges in its read set and
edge-deltas block in its scan set based on vertex IDs and labels, and
validates them in this order. It further groups edges in the same
edge delta-chain together. For 𝑣,𝑒∈𝑅, 𝑡checks the vertex or edge
delta-chain head’s 𝑐𝑡𝑠. If 𝑐𝑡𝑠> 𝑡.𝑟𝑡𝑠, 𝑡aborts because its read set has
already been updated. For 𝑡’s scan set, 𝑡has to validate that the edge-
deltas block (adjacency list) does not have new edge deltas created
after 𝑡’s 𝑟𝑡𝑠. Otherwise, 𝑡aborts. After 𝑡validates its read and scan
sets, it can move forward to commit. We revise the commit phase
with additional synchronizations. Each transaction must register in
the commit group to start its validation phase. After the validation
phase, the transaction fetches the global write epoch, and uses it as
its commit timestamp. To accommodate the validation phase, the
commit manager tracks the current commit group, and enforces a
serialization point between groups. It periodically enters a quiescent
state and waits for all transactions in the current commit group to
validate, then commit or abort. It starts a new commit group by
incrementing global read/write epochs. Future transactions must
wait to commit after the quiescent state. Note that if 𝑡has an empty
write set or it contains empty read and scan sets, it is considered a
read-only or a write-only transaction, and does not participate in
read set validation.
Discussion: There are some implications that follow from design-
ing serializable transactions. If a transaction 𝑡2 is placed after trans-
action 𝑡1 in the serial order according to the commit timestamp, 𝑡2
should see all 𝑡1’s committed updates. Therefore, 𝑡2 has to ensure
that it does not miss any updates. If 𝑡2 repeatedly fails the validation
when it reads a hotspot edge-deltas block, a lock-based protocol is
preferred to ensure progress. On the other hand, using a read-write
transaction to perform both graph analytics and updates will signif-
icantly degrades performance. Because graph analytics algorithms
typically scan the whole graph, a single update will break the seri-
alizability for this transaction if it also has writes. Therefore, it is
better to use a read-only transaction for graph analytics. If there is
a need to run a transaction with both graph analytics and updates,
it is better to reduce the isolation level to Snapshot Isolation instead.
9
Resource Management
Memory Allocation. GTX adopts the hybrid memory allocator
from LiveGraph [111] to balance concurrent memory allocation and
space utilization. It allocates a large chunk of memory at system
start via 𝑚𝑚𝑎𝑝, and divides memory into blocks of varying powers-
of-2 sizes (as in Buddy systems [63]). Each worker thread locally
manages a pool of memory blocks smaller than a threshold and can
allocate memory blocks from this pool without synchronization.
Larger memory blocks are managed in a global pool. Due to the
power-law nature of real-world graphs, most vertices are not hub
vertices, i.e., do not have many edges. Thus, most of the vertex
delta and edge-deltas block can be directly allocated from threads’
private pools. Even when threads need to allocate a larger block,
they unlikely request it at the same time. Thus, GTX’s memory
allocation protocol is mostly contention-free.
Cooperative Garbage Collection. 𝑀𝑉𝐶𝐶creates garbage: ver-
sions that no current and future transactions can see. State-of-the-
art 𝑀𝑉𝐶𝐶/snapshot systems support garbage collections (GC) [22,
39, 42, 52, 67, 75, 95, 99, 111]. Cooperative garbage collection is used
extensively in both relational and graph systems due to its good per-
formance in coupling with normal transaction operations [42, 52, 67,
75, 99, 111]. It saves the overhead of maintaining additional garbage
collection threads, and provides timely recycling of garbage. GTX
maintains a timestamp table (one entry per worker thread) to store
the timestamps of running transactions. Worker threads register
memory blocks as garbage during runtime, and periodically recycle
the “safe" blocks. When a transaction commits or Lazy Updates a
vertex delta, it invalidates the vertex’s previous version. A worker
thread invalidates the (old) edge-deltas block after consolidating
it. Each worker thread, say 𝑤, maintains a local priority queue to
store the invalidated vertex delta or edge-deltas blocks with their
invalidation times. Periodically, 𝑤scans the timestamp table to find
the “safe" (minimum) timestamp. 𝑤continuously recycles mem-
ory blocks from its garbage queue until the queue is empty or the

=== PAGE 11 ===
GTX: A Write-Optimized Latch-free Graph Data System with Transactional Support - Extended Version
GTX Technical Report, 2025, arxiv
Systems
Atomicity
Consistency
Isolation
Durability
single operation
multiple operations
no dangling edge
no duplicate edge
SI
Serializable
log+checkpoint
GTX
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
LiveGraph
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✗
✓
Teseo
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✗
✗
Sortledton
✓
✓
✓
✓
✗
✓
✗
Spruce
✓
✗
✗
✓
✗
✗
✗
Table 1: Transactional Graph System Comparison
Graph Dataset
|V|
|E|
Avg. Degree
Max Degree
dota-league
61K
51M
1663.24
17004
graph500-24
9M
260M
58.7
406416
uniform-24
9M
260M
58.7
103
yahoo-songs
1.6M
256M
513.04
468425
edit-wiki
50M
572M
22.561
5576228
graph500-26
33M
1B
64.13
1003338
twitter
41M
1.46B
70.506
3081112
Table 2: Dataset Statistics
current queue head’s timestamp becomes too large. If a recycled
block 𝑏is small, 𝑤stores 𝑏in its local pool, else 𝑏is sent back to
the global pool [111]. This ensures that small blocks are allocated
contention-free while large blocks return to the global pool for
reuse by all threads. Silo [99], Hekaton [42], and Cicada [75] also
register garbage, and perform cooperative safe timestamps-based
garbage collection. GTX’s GC is unique in its low overhead design.
GTX recycles each outdated edge-deltas block as a whole instead of
each invalidated edge delta individually, reducing garbage registra-
tion and recycling overhead. Each garbage registration is included
in the normal operations: commit, Lazy Update or block consolida-
tion. Thus, worker threads do not search for garbage. GTX worker
threads have little interference when recycling garbage blocks. Each
garbage priority queue is managed locally, and the timestamp table
is cache-friendly and latch-free. GTX GC ensures that the safe mem-
ory block is inaccessible by other threads. Thus, there is no need
for thread synchronization during GC. In contrast, state-of-the-art
GCs generally execute at per-object granularity [75, 99], or interact
with other threads through locks or atomic primitives [42, 75].
Figure 6: Bars Color Code in Experimental Results.
10
Evaluation
This study focuses on supporting high throughput read-write trans-
actions with concurrent graph analytics. Experiment Setup. Ex-
periments run on a dual-socket machine with Intel(R) Xeon(R)
Platinum 8368 @ 2.40GHz processors. It has 2 NUMA nodes and
each NUMA node’s CPU has 38 physical cores supporting up to
76 threads. We compile all systems with GCC 13.3.0 and O3 opti-
mization flag, and evaluate them over a single NUMA node with
best effort, i.e., the evaluated system allocates memory locally, and
uses remote memory only if its memory exceeds a single NUMA
node. We conduct experiments with up to 64 worker threads. We
choose to allocate fewer worker threads than one NUMA node’s
available threads to avoid causing computing resource contentions
and induced inaccuracies and allow systems, e.g., Teseo [39] to
spawn service threads. One exception is for insert experiments of
graph500-26 [12] and twitter [65] with over 1 billion edges. This
machine’s memory is not enough to evaluate all the systems. Thus,
for these datasets, we evaluate all systems in a setup with Intel(R)
Xeon(R) Platinum 8168 CPU @ 2.70GHz processors that has 12
cores supporting up to 24 threads and 387GB DRAM per NUMA
node. To minimize NUMA effects, we run the experiments in a
single NUMA node with up to 20 worker threads to avoid com-
puting resource contention. Statistics of all graph datasets used in
the experiments are given in Table 2. We use the same evaluation
program based on the 𝐿𝐷𝐵𝐶Graphalytics benchmark [20, 59] used
in Teseo [39], Sortledton [52], and Spruce [95], and add more ex-
periments. We evaluate against the transactional graph systems:
LiveGraph [111], Teseo [39], and Sortledton [52]. Our evaluation
focuses on SI isolation level, and we mainly evaluate the SI version
of GTX. Note that LiveGraph and Teseo only support SI. In Sec-
tion 10.5, we use an additional experiment to compare the SI and
Serializable versions of GTX. Spruce [19, 95] lacks enough transac-
tional support for the experiments. Its transactions can only update
a single directed edge, or read a single vertex’s neighborhood. To
insert an undirected edge, Spruce creates 2 transactions (with two
timestamps), breaking reciprocal consistency [35, 102]. Also, it cre-
ates 1 transaction per adjacency list scan, thus, failing to obtain a
transaction consistent view of the whole graph. Thus, we exclude
this system from the experiments. Table 1 compares these systems.
Note that Sortledton requires transactions to know their read and
write sets beforehand [52]. Experiments include a few instances of
uniform graphs but the main focus is on power-law graphs as many
real-world graphs exhibit such patterns [33, 34, 46, 96]. Experiment
results follow the color codes in Figure 6.
10.1
Insert Performance
This experiment includes inserting uniform and power-law real-
world and synthetic graphs with edges shuffled or according to
timestamp order. Each system inserts an undirected edge by in-
serting 2 directed edges in a transaction and executes “checked"
operations so that every edge insert involves a read to check if
the edge exists. Thus, each transaction internally executes 2 edge
lookups and 2 edge writes atomically. Thus, having efficient edge
reads can improve transaction throughput.

=== PAGE 12 ===
GTX Technical Report, 2025, arxiv
Libin Zhou, Lu Xing, Yeasir Rayhan, Walid. G. Aref
Figure 7: Insertion Throughput
Figure 8: Update Throughput
Random-order Inserts. Evaluated systems insert edges from uni-
form and power-law real-world and synthetic graphs: graph500-24,
26, uniform-24, dota-league [12, 68] and twitter [65]. graph500-26
and twitter have over 1 billion edges. Thus, we evaluate them on
the machine with larger DRAM up to 20 worker threads. We have
evaluated other graph datasets but their results are similar to the
ones presented, and are omitted for brevity. The results are in Fig-
ure 7. GTX has over 10x better throughput than LiveGraph and
1.34x to 2x better throughput than the second-best Sortledton.
Timestamp-ordered Inserts. We insert edges of real-world graphs
yahoo-songs and edit-wiki [65] based on their creation timestamps.
Real-life power-law graphs not only have hub vertices (dataset edit-
wiki has vertices with millions of adjacent edges) but also hotspots.
Transactional graph systems have significant performance degra-
dation when inserting edges in timestamp order [52]. Thus, we
compare performances in both random and timestamp order in-
sertions. Refer to Figures 7’s yahoo and edit-wiki. As baseline, we
evaluate inserting edges in random order. For yahoo-songs, GTX
has the best scalability with up to 70% better throughput over Sor-
tledton. For edit-wiki, GTX ranks the second and performs the best
with medium parallelism degree. GTX does not scale well here
at high worker thread numbers because its adaptive delta chains
adjustment heuristic does not catch up well with large neighbor-
hoods. GTX could have used a more aggressive heuristic to allocate
larger edge-deltas block and increase delta chain numbers during
consolidation, so more concurrent writers would be allowed per
edge-deltas block. However, this will increase the size of allocated
blocks and memory used by indexes, and may incur wasted spaces
for low-degree vertices. We plan to explore more sophisticated
heuristics in future works. In contrast, when inserting in the times-
tamp order, GTX performs the best over all competitor systems.
The second-best Sortledton’s throughput suffers up to 90% degra-
dation. In contrast, GTX’s throughput only drops by up to 30%. In
yahoo-songs, GTX has up to 11x better throughput than Sortledton
and in edit-wiki, GTX has up to 9x better throughput.
Performance Analysis. Experiment results show that GTX has
the highest throughput in power-law graph updates and only GTX
can maintain high performance under edge update hotspot and tem-
poral localities. We attribute GTX’s performance to its non-blocking
latch-free graph store and low-overhead and adaptive delta-chain
locking. GTX’s exclusive locks are embedded in the delta-chains
index with minimal overhead. GTX adjusts the number of delta
chains of each edge-deltas block as edge updates arrive, and en-
ables concurrent writes to the same vertex. Thus GTX achieves the
highest performance in timestamp-ordered workload. For uniform
graphs, Sortledton outperforms GTX for low parallelism degrees,
but GTX’s performance catches up as the number of concurrent
worker threads increases. Since the graph is uniform, each vertex
has about the same number of edges. Concurrent transactions are
not likely updating the same adjacency lists. Thus, GTX’s delta-
chain locking becomes under-utilized, and the drawbacks of vertex-
centric locking are mitigated because transactions are less likely
to conflict in this case. However, for power-law graphs, Sortled-
ton’s threads block on concurrent updates on hub vertices and
during a hotspot causing performance degradation. Ideally, Teseo
should reduce the conflict in concurrently updating hub vertices
by storing large neighborhoods in multiple segments. However,
its sparse array segment rebalance exclusively locks multiple ad-
jacent segments. Thus, concurrent rebalance threads may conflict
when locking the same adjacent segment or with other concurrent
transactions. Teseo’s segment locking may also incur false positives

=== PAGE 13 ===
GTX: A Write-Optimized Latch-free Graph Data System with Transactional Support - Extended Version
GTX Technical Report, 2025, arxiv
Figure 9: Concurrent Updates and Analytics: Transaction Throughput
Figure 10: Concurrent Updates and Analytics: Graph Analytics Latency
by locking vertices in the same segment. Thus, its throughput in
timestamp-ordered experiment degrades by up to 99%. LiveGraph’s
performance suffers due to vertex-centric locking and the absence
of edge indexes. For each edge insert, a LiveGraph transaction scans
the edge block to check if the edge exists which is costly.
Lessons learned: Using latch-free techniques and low-overhead
locking bits, having edge indexes, and breaking down vertex-centric
locking to adapt workload enable higher transaction throughput.
10.2
Update Performance
We adopt the graph500-24 update experiments from Teseo [39]
and Sortledton [52] to evaluate the performance of transactional
graph systems in handling graph updates, but we add additional
datasets. We generate log files based on the edges of the power-
law graph graph500-24 using graphlog [37]. The source graph has
around 260M edges with 2.6B edge-update logs. The 1st 10% edge
logs are edge inserts that build the original graph. The next 90%
are edge inserts and deletes. If a vertex has high degree in the
graph, it has proportionally more edge update logs. The experiment
ensures that graph size stays close to the initial size. All systems
execute checked operations: Edge inserts (deletes) only happen
after checking the edge existence. Each system uses one NUMA
node. If memory is not enough, it uses a remote node. LiveGraph’s
memory use is overly large, and could only process 20% of the
logs. Thus, its experiments are conducted using 20% of the logs.
We generate one set of edge update logs, and place the edge logs
randomly in the edge log stream. Also, we generate another set of
edge logs with temporal localities and hotspots to mimic real-world
scenarios. Transactions will more likely update the same vertex’s
adjacency list concurrently. We report the edge update transaction
throughput in Figure 8.
GTX maintains its highest throughput and scalability in update
transactions due to reasons similar to those discussed in the Inser-
tion Experiments. Moreover, LiveGraph and Sortledton experience
performance degradation in workloads with temporal localities
and hotspots. One interesting difference is Teseo that maintains
high performance in both workloads, and becomes the second-
best performing system behind GTX. Notice that Teseo does not
experience the same severe performance degradation as that in
timestamp-ordered insertion experiment. We attribute this to the
in-place updates in Teseo. As discussed earlier, the graph size stays
close to its initial size during the update experiments, and Teseo
performs in-place updates for deletes and subsequent inserts. There-
fore, Teseo does not incur as many structure modifications as in the
insert-only experiments. Service threads are invoked less frequently,
and they are less likely to lock sparse array segments, reducing
contentions among concurrent threads.
Lessons Learned: In-place updates reduce the frequency of struc-
ture modifications that have coarser lock-granularity, and may
induce contention. Thus, limiting the amount of structure modifi-
cations in a graph system is beneficial for transaction throughput.
10.3
Concurrent Updates and Analytics
We study how systems support concurrent update transactions and
graph analytics simultaneously.
The mixed-workload experiment works as follows: We allocate
60 thread resources, and control the read/write ratio by assigning
the threads either as write or OpenMP [16] read threads, e.g., 30
write and 30 read threads form a 50% write workload. Write threads
continuously run update transactions as in the Update Experiment
using the same graph logs while read threads run graph analytics.
We could not report the results of Teseo as it runs into deadlocks (the
same problem is reported in Sortledton’s evaluation [52]). Sortled-
ton has segmentation fault errors for some workloads, but we are
still able to produce results. For analytics, we evaluate 1-hop (1-HN)
and 2-hop neighbors (2-HN) that find 1-hop and 1-2 hop neighbors
of a set of vertices, and breadth first search (BFS), PageRank (PR),
and single source shortest paths (SSSP) from Graphalytics [20, 59].
Similar experiments are in [52, 95] but they only run BFS and PR
under certain thread configurations.

=== PAGE 14 ===
GTX Technical Report, 2025, arxiv
Libin Zhou, Lu Xing, Yeasir Rayhan, Walid. G. Aref
Figure 11: Concurrent Update with Hotspot and Temporal Localities and Analytics: Transaction Throughput
Figure 12: Concurrent Update with Hotspot and Temporal Localities and Analytics: Graph Analytics Latency
Normal Update Distribution. We use the same edge-update logs
with random edge distribution as those in the Update Experiment.
Write threads run transactions executing edge logs, and concurrent
graph analytics start at 10% of the update workload (after the source
graph is loaded). The results are in Figures 9, 10. Sortledton crashes
for several workloads. We redo these workloads and record the
results for the successful runs. For 1-HN, PR, and SSSP, when the
workload is read-heavy, e.g., 30% write, GTX’s concurrent analytics
can take at most 2× longer time than the best performing com-
petitor. GTX has slightly higher transaction throughput than the
second place Sortledton under these workloads. As the workload
becomes more write-heavy, GTX’s graph analytics performance
catches up, and has the highest transaction throughput. For write-
heavy workloads, e.g., 90% write, GTX has 1.46× to 1.7× higher
transaction throughput than the second best system Sortledton, and
performs the best and second best in SSSP and PR, respectively. GTX
also maintains competitive performance in 1-HN against the other
systems. Sortledton wins in BFS with significantly lower latency
under all workloads. GTX is 1.13× to 1.75× faster than Sortledton
in 2-HN under all workloads while achieving better transaction
throughput (1.05× to 1.51×). LiveGraph exhibits good performance
for graph analytics (around 0.99× to 1.54× faster than GTX), but
its transaction throughput is significantly lower than the other 2
systems (GTX has 5.2× to 11.9× higher transaction throughput
than LiveGraph).
Temporal Locality and Hotspot Update Distribution. This ex-
periment has the same setting as the previous mixed-workload
experiment except for having different edge logs. We use the edge-
update logs with temporal localities and hotspots from the Update
Experiment. We study performance for concurrent reads and writes
with temporal localities. Sortledton’s segmentation fault persists
for this hotspots workload. Thus, we only report available results
in Figures 11, 12. All systems’ graph analytics performance are not
affected much by update hotspots. Sortledton and LiveGraph trans-
actions degrade by up to 68.5% and 46% in throughput, respectively,
for workloads with temporal localities and hotspots in update pat-
terns. Only GTX maintains high transaction throughput (up to 5.3×
and 22.3× better than Sortledton and LiveGraph, respectively) and
is competitive in graph analytics.
Performance Analysis. GTX has the best transaction throughput
while maintaining competitive graph analytics performance across
different workloads. We attribute this to the following reasons. GTX
supports delta-based MVCC that prevents read transactions from
conflicting with write transactions. Thus, the interference between
concurrent updates and graph analytics is mitigated. GTX’s adap-
tive delta-chain locking adapts to workload temporal localities and
hotspots to provide higher concurrency than vertex-centric lock-
ing systems. Thus, GTX can maintain high transaction throughput
across all experiments. It stores and manages edge delta-chains
of each adjacency list sequentially in a memory block. This pre-
serves cache locality, reduces random memory access and cache
misses, and facilitates prefetch. Previous works [39, 52, 111] show
that sequential adjacency list storage is beneficial to adjacency list
scan: the backbone for graph analytics. GTX implements graph
algorithms (e.g., BFS, PR, and SSSP) directly accessing edge-deltas
blocks, and is compiled within the system. It saves the cost of using
adjacency list iterators and associated functional calls. Our experi-
ments show that using an iterator is around 1.15× slower in graph
analytics. Finally, GTX distributes the transaction table over worker
threads to enable latch-free 𝑂(1) access to transaction status for
Lazy Updates, and the Block Access Table allows each reader and
writer thread to register block-level access in its own cache-line-
aligned entry without invalidating caches of other worker threads
or modifying a shared lock.
Sortledton performs differently across experiments. It has the
second best transaction throughput but it degrades for workloads
with temporal localities and hotspots. For analytics, it performs
the best in BFS. Sortledton uses exclusive lightweight latches for
each adjacency list. BFS touches a smaller portion of the graph.

=== PAGE 15 ===
GTX: A Write-Optimized Latch-free Graph Data System with Transactional Support - Extended Version
GTX Technical Report, 2025, arxiv
Figure 13: Power-Law Graph Insertion Memory Usage
Figure 14: Mixed-Workload Memory Consumption
Thus, update and read transactions are less likely to conflict, by-
passing the negative locking effects. BFS requires each vertex’s
degree to initialize the algorithm. GTX and LiveGraph scan the
vertex adjacency list to calculate this value. This dominates the
BFS latency. Sortledton supports vertex degree versioning that al-
lows transactions to get vertex degree efficiently, thus supporting
efficient BFS. PR and SSSP require finding each vertex’s degree,
but they also need to scan vertices’ adjacency lists multiple times.
The algorithm’s execution phase dominates the total latency, and
thus Sortledton’s advantages drop. As read threads scan the graph
heavily, they become more likely to conflict with write transactions.
1-HN and 2-HN only requires adjacency list scans. In 2-HN, each
vertex’s 1-hop neighbors are not known a priori, causing Sortledton
to have large locking overhead, and hence has worse performance
than GTX. LiveGraph shows strong disparity between its transac-
tion throughput and graph analytics. Its transaction throughput is
several times worse than both GTX and Sortledton but its graph
analytics perform better. LiveGraph uses a similar-styled 𝑀𝑉𝐶𝐶as
GTX’s but only optimizes for sequential adjacency list scans [111].
It guarantees that each vertex’s adjacency list is stored sequen-
tially in memory and transaction reads and writes never conflict.
Moreover, LiveGraph has smaller edge log entries compared to
GTX’s edge deltas. The compact sequential adjacency list storage
enables good read performance. But LiveGraph suffers from its
simple vertex-centric locking and lack of edge lookup indexes as
discussed in Section 10.1 and has the worst transaction throughput.
Lessons learned: Limiting writes to shared memory variables, iso-
lating updates in versions, and being cache-friendly reduce trans-
action overheads and interference. Having a sequential adjacency
list and limiting function calls enable performant graph analytics.
10.4
Memory Consumption
GTX uses 64-byte edge deltas, so it uses more memory to load
and store a graph. For power-law graph inserts, GTX uses around
2× to 3×, 0.9× to 2.1×, and 1.2× to 1.9× more memory than Sor-
tledton, Teseo and LiveGraph respectively (Figure 13). However,
GTX’s memory usage stays stable and consistent in more complex
workloads involving updates (invalidated versions), concurrent an-
alytics, and hotspots. Figure 14 shows memory usage comparison
of different systems under balanced mixed-workload experiments .
It shows that GTX is efficient in memory allocation and garbage
collection. LiveGraph uses more memory if the workload involves
updates and analytics, while Sortledton’s memory usage increases
at most 5.17× in workloads with temporal localities and hotspots.
GTX has the lowest memory consumption for these experiments.
Figure 15: Performance Degradation of Serializable GTX
10.5
Serializable vs. Snapshot Isolation GTX
We modify the insertion experiment (Section 10.1) to evaluate Se-
rializable GTX’s overhead over its Snapshot Isolation (SI) version
using the same datasets and number of threads. Besides the checked
edge insertion, each worker thread records the edge inserted in its
last transaction. For each subsequent edge insert, the worker thread
creates a new read-write transaction that first reads the previous
edge inserted, and then inserts the checked edge. We report the
average degradation using 4 of the datasets as in Figure 15. Serializ-
able GTX has 3-25% throughput degradation vs. the SI version due

=== PAGE 16 ===
GTX Technical Report, 2025, arxiv
Libin Zhou, Lu Xing, Yeasir Rayhan, Walid. G. Aref
to the following factors. Committing transactions and the commit
manager need to synchronize in the quiescent state to enforce seri-
alization between commit groups. Moreover, transactions need to
recheck objects they read and will abort if they break serializability.
Lessons Learned: Serializable transaction support comes at a
price of up to 25% performance degradation. LiveGraph [111] and
Teseo [39] only support SI. Sortledton [52] supports serializabil-
ity but requires known read and write sets and finishing all reads
before writes. Because serializability support is costly and SI is
sufficient for graph workloads (discussed in Section 6), serializable
transactions should be used only when necessary.
11
Conclusions
GTX is a latch-free write-optimized transactional graph system
that supports concurrent read-write transactions and graph ana-
lytics. It adopts an adjacency list format and a delta chain-based
storage with delta-chains index. Its adjacency list design combines
both the linked list-based delta store [70] and append-only delta
updates [100, 111] to enable high update throughput, low-latency
single edge lookup, and sequential adjacency list scan. GTX has high
read and write concurrency using transactions, multi-versioning,
and Lazy Update hybrid commit under snapshot isolation. Evalu-
ation against state-of-the-art transactional graph systems shows
that GTX has better performance for read-write transactions, and is
several times better in handling real-world write workload with tem-
poral localities. GTX performs well under mixed workloads when
the workload is at least 50% writes, in which case, GTX has better
read-write transaction throughput while its graph analytics latency
remains competitive. For most of the write-heavy workloads, GTX
significantly outperforms competitors in write throughput while
maintaining close or even better graph analytics latency. Overall,
GTX demonstrates that using latch-free techniques, avoiding vertex-
centric locking, being cache-friendly, maintaining adjacency list-
level edge indexes and sequential adjacency list storage, and being
adaptive to the workload can enable high transaction throughput
and better read-write concurrency in transactional graph systems.
References
[1] [n. d.]. . https://graphbase.ai/
[2] [n. d.]. RedisGraph. https://redis.io/docs/latest/operate/oss_and_stack/stack-
with-enterprise/deprecated-features/graph/
[3] 2013.
New Tweets per second record, and how!
https://blog.twitter.com/
engineering/en_us/a/2013/new-tweets-per-second-record-and-how
[4] 2015. Hint Bits. https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Hint_Bits
[5] 2019. China’s Singles’ Day shopping spree sees robust sales. http://www.xinhuanet.
com/english/2019-11/11/c_138546429.htm
[6] 2020. OrientDB. https://orientdb.org/
[7] 2022.
LDBC benchmark data sets.
https://ldbcouncil.org/data-sets-surf-
repository/snb-interactive-v2-updates.html
[8] 2023. ByteDance. https://www.bytedance.com/en/
[9] 2024.
Concurrent Data Access.
https://neo4j.com/docs/operations-
manual/current/database-internals/concurrent-data-access/#transactions-
isolation-lostupdates
[10] 2024. Get Started with SAP HANA Graph. https://developers.sap.com/group.
hana-aa-graph-overview.html
[11] 2024. JanusGraph. https://janusgraph.org/
[12] 2024. LDBC Graphalytics Benchmark (LDBC Graphalytics). https://ldbcouncil.
org/benchmarks/graphalytics/
[13] 2024. LDBC SNB Business Intelligence (BI) workload implementations.
https:
//github.com/ldbc/ldbc_snb_bi
[14] 2024.
LDBC SNB Interactive v2 workload implementations.
https:
//github.com/ldbc/ldbc_snb_interactive_v1_impls#ldbc-snb-interactive-
v2-workload-implementations
[15] 2024. Neo4j. https://neo4j.com/
[16] 2024. OpenMP. https://www.openmp.org/
[17] 2024. OQGRAPH Overview. https://mariadb.com/kb/en/oqgraph-overview/
[18] 2024. Oracle Big Data Spatial and Graph. https://www.oracle.com/database/
technologies/bigdata-spatialandgraph.html
[19] 2024. Spruce. https://github.com/Stardust-SJF/Spruce
[20] Wing Lung Ngai Stijn Heldens Arnau Prat-Pérez Thomas Manhardto Hassan
Chafio Mihai Capotă Narayanan Sundaram Michael Anderson Ilie Gabriel Tă-
nase Yinglong Xia Lifeng Nai Alexandru Iosup, Tim Hegeman and Peter Boncz.
2017. LDBC Graphalytics Benchmark specification, v0.9.0.
[21] Khaled Ammar. 2016. Techniques and Systems for Large Dynamic Graphs. In
Proceedings of the 2016 on SIGMOD’16 PhD Symposium (San Francisco, California,
USA) (SIGMOD’16 PhD). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY,
USA, 7–11. https://doi.org/10.1145/2926693.2929897
[22] Panagiotis Antonopoulos, Peter Byrne, Wayne Chen, Cristian Diaconu,
Raghavendra Thallam Kodandaramaih, Hanuma Kodavalla, Prashanth Pur-
nananda, Adrian-Leonard Radu, Chaitanya Sreenivas Ravella, and Girish Mittur
Venkataramanappa. 2019. Constant time recovery in Azure SQL database. Proc.
VLDB Endow. 12, 12 (aug 2019), 2143–2154. https://doi.org/10.14778/3352063.
3352131
[23] Timothy G. Armstrong, Vamsi Ponnekanti, Dhruba Borthakur, and Mark
Callaghan. 2013. LinkBench: A Database Benchmark Based on the Facebook
Social Graph (SIGMOD ’13). https://doi.org/10.1145/2463676.2465296
[24] Joy Arulraj, Justin Levandoski, Umar Farooq Minhas, and Per-Ake Larson. 2018.
Bztree: A High-Performance Latch-Free Range Index for Non-Volatile Memory.
Proc. VLDB Endow. 11, 5 (2018). https://doi.org/10.1145/3164135.3164147
[25] Greg Barnes. 1993. A Method for Implementing Lock-Free Shared-Data Struc-
tures. In Proceedings of the Fifth Annual ACM Symposium on Parallel Algorithms
and Architectures (Velen, Germany) (SPAA ’93). Association for Computing Ma-
chinery, New York, NY, USA, 261–270. https://doi.org/10.1145/165231.165265
[26] Hal Berenson, Phil Bernstein, Jim Gray, Jim Melton, Elizabeth O’Neil, and Patrick
O’Neil. 1995. A critique of ANSI SQL isolation levels. SIGMOD Rec. 24, 2 (may
1995), 1–10. https://doi.org/10.1145/568271.223785
[27] Maciej Besta, Marc Fischer, Vasiliki Kalavri, Michael Kapralov, and Torsten
Hoefler. 2023. Practice of Streaming Processing of Dynamic Graphs: Con-
cepts, Models, and Systems. IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib. Syst. 34, 6 (June 2023),
1860–1876. https://doi.org/10.1109/TPDS.2021.3131677
[28] Maciej Besta, Robert Gerstenberger, Marc Fischer, Michał Podstawski, Jürgen
Müller, Nils Blach, Berke Egeli, George Mitenkov, Wojciech Chlapek, Marek
Michalewicz, and Torsten Hoefler. 2023. The Graph Database Interface: Scaling
Online Transactional and Analytical Graph Workloads to Hundreds of Thou-
sands of Cores. arXiv:2305.11162 [cs.DB]
[29] Maciej Besta, Robert Gerstenberger, Emanuel Peter, Marc Fischer, Michał Pod-
stawski, Claude Barthels, Gustavo Alonso, and Torsten Hoefler. 2023. Demysti-
fying Graph Databases: Analysis and Taxonomy of Data Organization, System
Designs, and Graph Queries. ACM Comput. Surv. 56, 2, Article 31 (sep 2023),
40 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3604932
[30] Kai Zeng Bolin Ding and Wenyuan Yu. 2020. Alibaba Sponsor Talk at VLDB.
[31] Chiranjeeb Buragohain, Knut Magne Risvik, Paul Brett, Miguel Castro, Wonhee
Cho, Joshua Cowhig, Nikolas Gloy, Karthik Kalyanaraman, Richendra Khanna,
John Pao, Matthew Renzelmann, Alex Shamis, Timothy Tan, and Shuheng Zheng.
2020. A1: A Distributed In-Memory Graph Database. In Proceedings of the 2020
ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data (SIGMOD ’20).
329–344. https://doi.org/10.1145/3318464.3386135
[32] Hongzhi Chen, Changji Li, Chenguang Zheng, Chenghuan Huang, Juncheng
Fang, James Cheng, and Jian Zhang. 2022. G-Tran: A High Performance Dis-
tributed Graph Database with a Decentralized Architecture. Proc. VLDB Endow.
15, 11 (jul 2022), 2545–2558. https://doi.org/10.14778/3551793.3551813
[33] Rong Chen, Jiaxin Shi, Yanzhe Chen, Binyu Zang, Haibing Guan, and Haibo
Chen. 2019. PowerLyra: Differentiated Graph Computation and Partitioning on
Skewed Graphs. ACM Trans. Parallel Comput. (2019). https://doi.org/10.1145/
3298989
[34] Audrey Cheng, Xiao Shi, Aaron Kabcenell, Shilpa Lawande, Hamza Qadeer, Jason
Chan, Harrison Tin, Ryan Zhao, Peter Bailis, Mahesh Balakrishnan, Nathan
Bronson, Natacha Crooks, and Ion Stoica. 2022. TAOBench: an end-to-end
benchmark for social network workloads. Proc. VLDB Endow. 15, 9 (2022).
https://doi.org/10.14778/3538598.3538616
[35] Audrey Cheng, Jack Waudby, Hugo Firth, Natacha Crooks, and Ion Stoica. [n. d.].
Mammoths Are Slow: The Overlooked Transactions of Graph Data. ([n. d.]).
[36] Miaomiao Cheng, Jiujian Chen, Cheng Zhao, Cheng Chen, Yongmin Hu, Xiao-
liang Cong, Liang Qin, Hexiang Lin, Ronghua Li, Guoren Wang, Shuai Zhang,
and Lei Zhang. 2023. ByteGAP: A Non-continuous Distributed Graph Com-
puting System using Persistent Memory (CEUR Workshop Proceedings). CEUR-
WS.org. https://ceur-ws.org/Vol-3462/ADMS7.pdf
[37] Dean De Leo. [n. d.]. graphlog. https://github.com/whatsthecraic/graphlog
[38] Dean De Leo and Peter Boncz. 2019. Fast Concurrent Reads and Updates with
PMAs (GRADES-NDA’19). Association for Computing Machinery, New York,
NY, USA, Article 8, 8 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3327964.3328497

=== PAGE 17 ===
GTX: A Write-Optimized Latch-free Graph Data System with Transactional Support - Extended Version
GTX Technical Report, 2025, arxiv
[39] Dean De Leo and Peter Boncz. 2021. Teseo and the Analysis of Structural
Dynamic Graphs. 14, 6 (feb 2021), 1053–1066. https://doi.org/10.14778/3447689.
3447708
[40] Alin Deutsch, Yu Xu, Mingxi Wu, and Victor Lee. 2019. TigerGraph: A Native
MPP Graph Database. (01 2019).
[41] Laxman Dhulipala, Guy E. Blelloch, and Julian Shun. 2019. Low-Latency Graph
Streaming Using Compressed Purely-Functional Trees. In Proceedings of the 40th
ACM SIGPLAN Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation
(PLDI 2019). https://doi.org/10.1145/3314221.3314598
[42] Cristian Diaconu, Craig Freedman, Erik Ismert, Per-Ake Larson, Pravin Mittal,
Ryan Stonecipher, Nitin Verma, and Mike Zwilling. 2013. Hekaton: SQL server’s
memory-optimized OLTP engine. In Proceedings of the 2013 ACM SIGMOD
International Conference on Management of Data (New York, New York, USA)
(SIGMOD ’13). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA,
1243–1254. https://doi.org/10.1145/2463676.2463710
[43] Ayush Dubey, Greg D. Hill, Robert Escriva, and Emin Gün Sirer. 2016. Weaver:
A High-Performance, Transactional Graph Database Based on Refinable Times-
tamps. Proc. VLDB Endow. 9, 11 (jul 2016), 852–863. https://doi.org/10.14778/
2983200.2983202
[44] David Ediger, Rob McColl, Jason Riedy, and David A. Bader. 2012. STINGER:
High performance data structure for streaming graphs. In 2012 IEEE Conference
on High Performance Extreme Computing. 1–5. https://doi.org/10.1109/HPEC.
2012.6408680
[45] Orri Erling, Alex Averbuch, Josep Larriba-Pey, Hassan Chafi, Andrey Gubichev,
Arnau Prat, Minh-Duc Pham, and Peter Boncz. 2015. The LDBC Social Net-
work Benchmark: Interactive Workload (SIGMOD ’15). https://doi.org/10.1145/
2723372.2742786
[46] Michalis Faloutsos, Petros Faloutsos, and Christos Faloutsos. 1999. On Power-
Law Relationships of the Internet Topology (SIGCOMM ’99). https://doi.org/10.
1145/316188.316229
[47] Wenfei Fan, Tao He, Longbin Lai, Xue Li, Yong Li, Zhao Li, Zhengping Qian,
Chao Tian, Lei Wang, Jingbo Xu, Youyang Yao, Qiang Yin, Wenyuan Yu, Jingren
Zhou, Diwen Zhu, and Rong Zhu. 2021. GraphScope: a unified engine for big
graph processing. 14, 12 (jul 2021), 2879–2892. https://doi.org/10.14778/3476311.
3476369
[48] Zhuochen Fan, Yalun Cai, Zirui Liu, Jiarui Guo, Xin Fan, Tong Yang, and Bin
Cui. 2024. CuckooGraph: A Scalable and Space-Time Efficient Data Structure
for Large-Scale Dynamic Graphs. CoRR abs/2405.15193 (2024). https://doi.org/
10.48550/arXiv.2405.15193
[49] Guanyu Feng, Zixuan Ma, Daixuan Li, Shengqi Chen, Xiaowei Zhu, Wentao
Han, and Wenguang Chen. 2021. RisGraph: A Real-Time Streaming System for
Evolving Graphs to Support Sub-Millisecond Per-Update Analysis at Millions
Ops/s (SIGMOD ’21). https://doi.org/10.1145/3448016.3457263
[50] Xiyang Feng, Guodong Jin, Ziyi Chen, Chang Liu, and Semih Salihoğlu. 2023.
KÙZU Graph Database Management System. CIDR.
[51] Soukaina Firmli, Vasileios Trigonakis, Jean-Pierre Lozi, Iraklis Psaroudakis,
Alexander Weld, Chiadmi Dalila, Sungpack Hong, and Hassan Chafi. 2020.
CSR++: A Fast, Scalable, Update-Friendly Graph Data Structure. https://doi.
org/10.4230/LIPIcs.OPODIS.2020.17
[52] Per Fuchs, Domagoj Margan, and Jana Giceva. 2022. Sortledton: A Univer-
sal, Transactional Graph Data Structure. Proc. VLDB Endow. 15, 6 (feb 2022),
1173–1186. https://doi.org/10.14778/3514061.3514065
[53] Sanchit Garg, Trinabh Gupta, Niklas Carlsson, and Anirban Mahanti. 2009.
Evolution of an Online Social Aggregation Network: An Empirical Study. In
Proceedings of the 9th ACM SIGCOMM Conference on Internet Measurement (IMC
’09). https://doi.org/10.1145/1644893.1644931
[54] Pranjal Gupta, Amine Mhedhbi, and Semih Salihoglu. 2021. Columnar storage
and list-based processing for graph database management systems. Proc. VLDB
Endow. 14, 11 (jul 2021), 2491–2504. https://doi.org/10.14778/3476249.3476297
[55] Pankaj Gupta, Venu Satuluri, Ajeet Grewal, Siva Gurumurthy, Volodymyr
Zhabiuk, Quannan Li, and Jimmy Lin. 2014. Real-Time Twitter Recommenda-
tion: Online Motif Detection in Large Dynamic Graphs. Proc. VLDB Endow. 7,
13 (aug 2014). https://doi.org/10.14778/2733004.2733010
[56] Mohamed S. Hassan, Tatiana Kuznetsova, Hyun Chai Jeong, Walid G. Aref, and
Mohammad Sadoghi. 2018. Extending In-Memory Relational Database Engines
with Native Graph Support. In International Conference on Extending Database
Technology. https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:11389988
[57] Jim Webber Ian Robinson and Emil Eifrem. 2015. Graph Databases: New Oppor-
tunities for Connected Data (2nd ed.). O’Reilly Media, Inc.
[58] Borislav Iordanov. 2010. HyperGraphDB: A Generalized Graph Database. In
Web-Age Information Management, Heng Tao Shen, Jian Pei, M. Tamer Özsu,
Lei Zou, Jiaheng Lu, Tok-Wang Ling, Ge Yu, Yi Zhuang, and Jie Shao (Eds.).
Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg, 25–36.
[59] Alexandru Iosup, Tim Hegeman, Wing Lung Ngai, Stijn Heldens, Arnau Prat-
Pérez, Thomas Manhardto, Hassan Chafio, Mihai Capotă, Narayanan Sundaram,
Michael Anderson, Ilie Gabriel Tănase, Yinglong Xia, Lifeng Nai, and Peter
Boncz. 2016. LDBC Graphalytics: A Benchmark for Large-Scale Graph Analysis
on Parallel and Distributed Platforms. 9, 13 (2016), 12 pages. https://doi.org/10.
14778/3007263.3007270
[60] Muhammad Attahir Jibril, Hani Al-Sayeh, Alexander Baumstark, and Kai-
Uwe Sattler. 2023. Fast and Efficient Update Handling for Graph H2TAP. In
Proceedings 26th International Conference on Extending Database Technology,
EDBT 2023, Ioannina, Greece, March 28-31, 2023. OpenProceedings.org, 723–736.
https://doi.org/10.48786/edbt.2023.60
[61] Chathura Kankanamge, Siddhartha Sahu, Amine Mhedbhi, Jeremy Chen, and
Semih Salihoglu. 2017. Graphflow: An Active Graph Database (SIGMOD ’17).
Association for Computing Machinery. https://doi.org/10.1145/3035918.3056445
[62] Alexander D. Kent, Lorie M. Liebrock, and Joshua C. Neil. 2015. Authentication
graphs: Analyzing user behavior within an enterprise network. Computers &
Security 48 (2015), 150–166. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2014.09.001
[63] Kenneth C. Knowlton. 1965. A Fast Storage Allocator. Commun. ACM 8, 10 (oct
1965), 623–624. https://doi.org/10.1145/365628.365655
[64] Pradeep Kumar and H. Howie Huang. 2020. GraphOne: A Data Store for
Real-Time Analytics on Evolving Graphs. ACM Trans. Storage 15, 4 (2020).
https://doi.org/10.1145/3364180
[65] Jérôme Kunegis. [n. d.]. The KONECT Project. http://konect.cc/networks/
[66] Geof Langdale. [n. d.]. Lock-Free Programming. https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~410-
s05/lectures/L31_LockFree.pdf
[67] Per-Åke Larson, Spyros Blanas, Cristian Diaconu, Craig Freedman, Jignesh M.
Patel, and Mike Zwilling. 2011. High-performance concurrency control mecha-
nisms for main-memory databases. Proc. VLDB Endow. 5, 4 (dec 2011), 298–309.
https://doi.org/10.14778/2095686.2095689
[68] Dean De Leo. 2020. GFE Driver - Input graphs.
https://zenodo.org/records/
3966439
[69] Jure Leskovec and Rok Sosič. 2016. SNAP: A General-Purpose Network Analysis
and Graph-Mining Library. ACM Trans. Intell. Syst. Technol. 8, 1 (2016). https:
//doi.org/10.1145/2898361
[70] Justin Levandoski, David Lomet, and Sudipta Sengupta. 2013. The Bw-Tree: A
B-tree for New Hardware Platforms. In 2013 IEEE 29th International Conference
on Data Engineering (ICDE) (2013 ieee 29th international conference on data
engineering (icde) ed.). IEEE.
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/
publication/the-bw-tree-a-b-tree-for-new-hardware/
[71] Justin Levandoski, David Lomet, Sudipta Sengupta, Ryan Stutsman, and Rui
Wang. 2015. High Performance Transactions in Deuteronomy. In Conference on
Innovative Data Systems Research (CIDR 2015). https://www.microsoft.com/en-
us/research/publication/high-performance-transactions-in-deuteronomy/
[72] Changji Li, Hongzhi Chen, Shuai Zhang, Yingqian Hu, Chao Chen, Zhenjie
Zhang, Meng Li, Xiangchen Li, Dongqing Han, Xiaohui Chen, Xudong Wang,
Huiming Zhu, Xuwei Fu, Tingwei Wu, Hongfei Tan, Hengtian Ding, Mengjin
Liu, Kangcheng Wang, Ting Ye, Lei Li, Xin Li, Yu Wang, Chenguang Zheng, Hao
Yang, and James Cheng. 2022. ByteGraph: A High-Performance Distributed
Graph Database in ByteDance. Proc. VLDB Endow. 15, 12 (2022). https://doi.
org/10.14778/3554821.3554824
[73] Hongfu Li. 2024. GastCoCo: Graph Storage and Coroutine-Based Prefetch
Co-Design for Dynamic Graph Processing. arXiv:2312.14396 [cs.DB] https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2312.14396
[74] Tianyu Li, Badrish Chandramouli, and Samuel Madden. 2022. Performant
Almost-Latch-Free Data Structures Using Epoch Protection. In Data Man-
agement on New Hardware (Philadelphia, PA, USA) (DaMoN’22). Association
for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 1, 10 pages.
https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3533737.3535091
[75] Hyeontaek Lim, Michael Kaminsky, and David G. Andersen. 2017. Cicada:
Dependably Fast Multi-Core In-Memory Transactions. In Proceedings of the
2017 ACM International Conference on Management of Data (Chicago, Illinois,
USA) (SIGMOD ’17). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA,
21–35. https://doi.org/10.1145/3035918.3064015
[76] Heng Lin, Zhiyong Wang, Shipeng Qi, Xiaowei Zhu, Chuntao Hong, Wenguang
Chen, and Yingwei Luo. 2024. Building a High-Performance Graph Storage on
Top of Tree-Structured Key-Value Stores. Big Data Mining and Analytics 7, 1
(2024), 156–170. https://doi.org/10.26599/BDMA.2023.9020015
[77] Memgraph Ltd. [n. d.]. Memgraph. https://memgraph.com/
[78] Peter Macko, Virendra J. Marathe, Daniel W. Margo, and Margo I. Seltzer. 2015.
LLAMA: Efficient graph analytics using Large Multiversioned Arrays. In 2015
IEEE 31st International Conference on Data Engineering. 363–374. https://doi.
org/10.1109/ICDE.2015.7113298
[79] Arlino Magalhaes, Jose Maria Monteiro, and Angelo Brayner. 2021. Main Mem-
ory Database Recovery: A Survey. ACM Comput. Surv. 54, 2, Article 46 (mar
2021), 36 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3442197
[80] Norbert Martínez-Bazan, M. Ángel Águila Lorente, Victor Muntés-Mulero, David
Dominguez-Sal, Sergio Gómez-Villamor, and Josep-L. Larriba-Pey. 2012. Effi-
cient graph management based on bitmap indices. In Proceedings of the 16th
International Database Engineering & Applications Sysmposium (Prague, Czech
Republic) (IDEAS ’12). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY,
USA, 110–119. https://doi.org/10.1145/2351476.2351489

=== PAGE 18 ===
GTX Technical Report, 2025, arxiv
Libin Zhou, Lu Xing, Yeasir Rayhan, Walid. G. Aref
[81] Prashant Pandey, Brian Wheatman, Helen Xu, and Aydin Buluc. 2021. Terrace:
A Hierarchical Graph Container for Skewed Dynamic Graphs (SIGMOD ’21).
https://doi.org/10.1145/3448016.3457313
[82] K. Platz, N. Mittal, and S. Venkatesan. 2019. Concurrent Unrolled Skiplist. In 2019
IEEE 39th International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS).
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICDCS.2019.00157
[83] David Püroja, Jack Waudby, Peter Boncz, and Gábor Szárnyas. 2023. The LDBC
Social Network Benchmark Interactive workload v2: A transactional graph
query benchmark with deep delete operations. arXiv:2307.04820 [cs.DB]
[84] Hao Qi, Yiyang Wu, Ligang He, Yu Zhang, Kang Luo, Minzhi Cai, Hai Jin, Zhan
Zhang, and Jin Zhao. 2024. LSGraph: A Locality-centric High-performance
Streaming Graph Engine. In Proceedings of the Nineteenth European Conference
on Computer Systems (Athens, Greece) (EuroSys ’24). Association for Computing
Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 33–49. https://doi.org/10.1145/3627703.3650076
[85] Xiafei Qiu, Wubin Cen, Zhengping Qian, You Peng, Ying Zhang, Xuemin Lin, and
Jingren Zhou. 2018. Real-Time Constrained Cycle Detection in Large Dynamic
Graphs. 11, 12 (2018). https://doi.org/10.14778/3229863.3229874
[86] Christopher Rickett, Kristyn Maschhoff, and Sreenivas Rangan Sukumar. 2024.
Optimizing the Cray Graph Engine for performant analytics on cluster, Super-
Dome Flex, Shasta systems and cloud deployment. Concurrency and Computa-
tion: Practice and Experience 36 (01 2024). https://doi.org/10.1002/cpe.7982
[87] Siddhartha Sahu, Amine Mhedhbi, Semih Salihoglu, Jimmy Lin, and M. Tamer
Özsu. 2017. The Ubiquity of Large Graphs and Surprising Challenges of Graph
Processing. Proc. VLDB Endow. 11, 4 (2017). https://doi.org/10.1145/3186728.
3164139
[88] HANS-JÜRGEN SCHÖNIG. 2023. Speeding up things with hint bits.
https:
//www.cybertec-postgresql.com/en/speeding-up-things-with-hint-bits/
[89] Bin Shao, Haixun Wang, and Yatao Li. 2013. Trinity: a distributed graph engine
on a memory cloud. In Proceedings of the 2013 ACM SIGMOD International
Conference on Management of Data (New York, New York, USA) (SIGMOD ’13).
Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 505–516. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/2463676.2467799
[90] Aneesh Sharma, Jerry Jiang, Praveen Bommannavar, Brian Larson, and Jimmy
Lin. 2016. GraphJet: Real-Time Content Recommendations at Twitter. Proc.
VLDB Endow. 9, 13 (2016). https://doi.org/10.14778/3007263.3007267
[91] Aneesh Sharma, Jerry Jiang, Praveen Bommannavar, Brian Larson, and Jimmy
Lin. 2016. GraphJet: Real-Time Content Recommendations at Twitter. Proc.
VLDB Endow. 9, 13 (2016). https://doi.org/10.14778/3007263.3007267
[92] Supreeth Shastri, Vinay Banakar, Melissa Wasserman, Arun Kumar, and Vijay
Chidambaram. 2020. Understanding and benchmarking the impact of GDPR
on database systems. Proc. VLDB Endow. 13, 7 (mar 2020), 1064–1077. https:
//doi.org/10.14778/3384345.3384354
[93] Sijie Shen, Rong Chen, Haibo Chen, and Binyu Zang. 2021. Retrofitting High
Availability Mechanism to Tame Hybrid Transaction/Analytical Processing. In
15th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI
21). USENIX Association, 219–238. https://www.usenix.org/conference/osdi21/
presentation/shen
[94] Sijie Shen, Zihang Yao, Lin Shi, Lei Wang, Longbin Lai, Qian Tao, Li Su, Rong
Chen, Wenyuan Yu, Haibo Chen, Binyu Zang, and Jingren Zhou. 2023. Bridging
the Gap between Relational OLTP and Graph-based OLAP. In 2023 USENIX
Annual Technical Conference (USENIX ATC 23). USENIX Association.
https:
//www.usenix.org/conference/atc23/presentation/shen
[95] Jifan Shi, Biao Wang, and Yun Xu. 2024. Spruce: a Fast yet Space-saving Structure
for Dynamic Graph Storage. Proc. ACM Manag. Data 2, 1, Article 27 (mar 2024),
26 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3639282
[96] Kimmo Soramäki, Morten L. Bech, Jeffrey Arnold, Robert J. Glass, and Walter E.
Beyeler. 2007. The topology of interbank payment flows. Physica A: Statistical
Mechanics and its Applications (2007). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2006.11.
093
[97] Wen Sun, Achille Fokoue, Kavitha Srinivas, Anastasios Kementsietsidis, Gang
Hu, and Guotong Xie. 2015. SQLGraph: An Efficient Relational-Based Property
Graph Store. In Proceedings of the 2015 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on
Management of Data (Melbourne, Victoria, Australia) (SIGMOD ’15). Association
for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1887–1901. https://doi.org/10.
1145/2723372.2723732
[98] Gábor Szárnyas, Jack Waudby, Benjamin A. Steer, Dávid Szakállas, Altan Birler,
Mingxi Wu, Yuchen Zhang, and Peter Boncz. 2022. The LDBC Social Network
Benchmark: Business Intelligence Workload. Proc. VLDB Endow. 16, 4 (2022).
https://doi.org/10.14778/3574245.3574270
[99] Stephen Tu, Wenting Zheng, Eddie Kohler, Barbara Liskov, and Samuel Madden.
2013. Speedy transactions in multicore in-memory databases. In Proceedings of
the Twenty-Fourth ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles (Farminton,
Pennsylvania) (SOSP ’13). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY,
USA, 18–32. https://doi.org/10.1145/2517349.2522713
[100] Ziqi Wang, Andrew Pavlo, Hyeontaek Lim, Viktor Leis, Huanchen Zhang,
Michael Kaminsky, and David G. Andersen. 2018. Building a Bw-Tree Takes
More Than Just Buzz Words (SIGMOD ’18). Association for Computing Machin-
ery, New York, NY, USA, 473–488. https://doi.org/10.1145/3183713.3196895
[101] Todd Warszawski and Peter Bailis. 2017. ACIDRain: Concurrency-Related At-
tacks on Database-Backed Web Applications. In Proceedings of the 2017 ACM
International Conference on Management of Data (Chicago, Illinois, USA) (SIG-
MOD ’17). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 5–20.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3035918.3064037
[102] Jack Waudby, Paul Ezhilchelvan, Jim Webber, and Isi Mitrani. 2020. Preserving
reciprocal consistency in distributed graph databases. In Proceedings of the 7th
Workshop on Principles and Practice of Consistency for Distributed Data (PaPoC
’20). Association for Computing Machinery. https://doi.org/10.1145/3380787.
3393675
[103] Victor Junqiu Wei, Raymond Chi-Wing Wong, and Cheng Long. 2020.
Architecture-Intact Oracle for Fastest Path and Time Queries on Dynamic
Spatial Networks (SIGMOD ’20). Association for Computing Machinery, New
York, NY, USA. https://doi.org/10.1145/3318464.3389718
[104] Brian Wheatman and Randal Burns. 2021. Streaming Sparse Graphs using
Efficient Dynamic Sets. In 2021 IEEE International Conference on Big Data (Big
Data). 284–294. https://doi.org/10.1109/BigData52589.2021.9671836
[105] Brian Wheatman and Helen Xu. 2018. Packed Compressed Sparse Row: A Dy-
namic Graph Representation. In 2018 IEEE High Performance extreme Computing
Conference (HPEC). 1–7. https://doi.org/10.1109/HPEC.2018.8547566
[106] Daniel ten Wolde, Gábor Szárnyas, and Peter Boncz. 2023. DuckPGQ: Bringing
SQL/PGQ to DuckDB. Proc. VLDB Endow. 16, 12 (aug 2023), 4034–4037. https:
//doi.org/10.14778/3611540.3611614
[107] Yingjun Wu, Joy Arulraj, Jiexi Lin, Ran Xian, and Andrew Pavlo. 2017. An
Empirical Evaluation of In-Memory Multi-Version Concurrency Control. Proc.
VLDB Endow. 10, 7 (2017). https://doi.org/10.14778/3067421.3067427
[108] Xiangyao Yu, Andrew Pavlo, Daniel Sanchez, and Srinivas Devadas. 2016. TicToc:
Time Traveling Optimistic Concurrency Control. In Proceedings of the 2016
International Conference on Management of Data (San Francisco, California,
USA) (SIGMOD ’16). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA,
1629–1642. https://doi.org/10.1145/2882903.2882935
[109] Wenting Zheng, Stephen Tu, Eddie Kohler, and Barbara Liskov. 2014. Fast
Databases with Fast Durability and Recovery Through Multicore Parallelism.
In 11th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation
(OSDI 14). USENIX Association, Broomfield, CO, 465–477. https://www.usenix.
org/conference/osdi14/technical-sessions/presentation/zheng_wenting
[110] K. Zhou, G. Tan, and W. Zhou. 2018. Quadboost: A Scalable Concurrent Quadtree.
IEEE Transactions on Parallel &amp; Distributed Systems 29, 03 (2018). https:
//doi.org/10.1109/TPDS.2017.2762298
[111] Xiaowei Zhu, Guanyu Feng, Marco Serafini, Xiaosong Ma, Jiping Yu, Lei Xie,
Ashraf Aboulnaga, and Wenguang Chen. 2020. LiveGraph: A Transactional
Graph Storage System with Purely Sequential Adjacency List Scans. 13, 7 (mar
2020), 1020–1034. https://doi.org/10.14778/3384345.3384351
